Musculoskeletal conditions are the main drivers of global disease burden and cause significant direct and indirect health care costs. Digital health applications improve the availability of and access to adequate care. The German health care system established a pathway for the approval of “Digitale Gesundheitsanwendungen” (DiGAs; Digital Health Applications) as collectively funded medical services through the “Digitale-Versorgung-Gesetz” (Digital Health Care Act) in 2019. This article presents real-world prescription data collected through the smartphone-based home exercise program “Vivira,” a fully approved DiGA, regarding its effect on self-reported pain intensity and physical inability in patients with unspecific and degenerative pain in the back, hip, and knee. This study included 3629 patients (71.8% [2607/3629] female; mean age 47 years, SD 14.2 years). The primary outcome was the self-reported pain score, which was assessed with a verbal numerical rating scale. The secondary outcomes were self-reported function scores. To analyze the primary outcome, we used a 2-sided Skillings-Mack test. For function scores, a time analysis was not feasible; therefore, we calculated matched pairs using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test. Our results showed significant reductions in self-reported pain intensity after 2, 4, 8, and 12 weeks in the Skillings-Mack test (T3628=5308;P<.001). The changes were within the range of a clinically relevant improvement. Function scores showed a generally positive yet more variable response across the pain areas (back, hip, and knee). This study presents postmarketing observational data from one of the first DiGAs for unspecific and degenerative musculoskeletal pain. We noted significant improvements in self-reported pain intensity throughout the observation period of 12 weeks, which reached clinical relevance. Additionally, we identified a complex response pattern of the function scores assessed. Lastly, we highlighted the challenges of relevant attrition at follow-up and the potential opportunities for evaluating digital health applications. Although our findings do not have confirmatory power, they illustrate the potential benefits of digital health applications to improve the availability of and access to medical care. German Clinical Trials Register DRKS00024051; https://drks.de/search/en/trial/DRKS00024051