Digital diabetes prevention programs (digital-DPPs) are being implemented as population-based approaches to type 2 diabetes mellitus prevention in several countries to address problems with the uptake of traditional face-to-face diabetes prevention programs. However, assessments of digital-DPPs have largely focused on clinical outcomes and usability among those who have taken them up, whereas crucial information on decision-making about uptake (eg, whether a user downloads and registers on an app) and engagement (eg, the extent of use of an app or its components over time) is limited. Greater understanding of factors that influence uptake and engagement decisions may support large-scale deployments of digital-DPPs in real-world settings. This study aimed to explore the key influences on uptake and engagement decisions of individuals who were offered the National Health ServiceHealthier You: Digital Diabetes Prevention Programme (NHS-digital-DPP). A qualitative interview study was conducted using semistructured interviews. Participants were adults, aged ≥18 years, diagnosed with nondiabetic hyperglycemia, and those who had been offered the NHS-digital-DPP. Recruitment was conducted via 4 providers of the NHS-digital-DPP and 3 primary care practices in England. Interviews were conducted remotely and were guided by a theoretically informed topic guide. Analysis of interviews was conducted using an inductive thematic analysis approach. Interviews were conducted with 32 participants who had either accepted or declined the NHS-digital-DPP. In total, 7 overarching themes were identified as important factors in both decisions to take up and to engage with the NHS-digital-DPP. These were knowledge and understanding, referral process, self-efficacy, self-identity, motivation and support, advantages of digital service, and reflexive monitoring. Perceptions of accessibility and convenience of the NHS-digital-DPP were particularly important for uptake, and barriers in terms of the referral process and health care professionals’ engagement were reported. Specific digital features including health coaches and monitoring tools were important for engagement. This study adds to the literature on factors that influence the uptake of and engagement with digital-DPPs and suggests that digital-DPPs can overcome many barriers to the uptake of face-to-face diabetes prevention programs in supporting lifestyle changes aimed at diabetes prevention.