Subtle impairments in instrumental activities of daily living (IADLs) can be a key predictor of disease progression and are considered central to functional independence. Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is a syndrome associated with significant changes in cognitive function and mild impairment in complex functional abilities. The early detection of functional decline through the identification of IADL impairments can aid early intervention strategies. Digital health technology is an objective method of capturing IADL-related behaviors. However, it is unclear how these IADL-related behaviors have been digitally assessed in the literature and what differences can be observed between MCI and normal aging. This review aimed to identify the digital methods and metrics used to assess IADL-related behaviors in people with MCI and report any statistically significant differences in digital endpoints between MCI and normal aging and how these digital endpoints change over time. A total of 16,099 articles were identified from 8 databases (CINAHL, Embase, MEDLINE, ProQuest, PsycINFO, PubMed, Web of Science, and Scopus), out of which 15 were included in this review. The included studies must have used continuous remote digital measures to assess IADL-related behaviors in adults characterized as having MCI by clinical diagnosis or assessment. This review was conducted in accordance with the PRISMA (Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses) guidelines. Ambient technology was the most commonly used digital method to assess IADL-related behaviors in the included studies (14/15, 93%), with passive infrared motion sensors (5/15, 33%) and contact sensors (5/15, 33%) being the most prevalent types of methods. Digital technologies were used to assess IADL-related behaviors across 5 domains:activities outside of the home, everyday technology use, household and personal management, medication management,andorientation. Other recognized domains—culturally specific tasksandsocialization and communication—were not assessed. Of the 79 metrics recorded among 11 types of technologies, 65 (82%) were used only once. There were inconsistent findings around differences in digital IADL endpoints across the cognitive spectrum, with limited longitudinal assessment of how they changed over time. Despite the broad range of metrics and methods used to digitally assess IADL-related behaviors in people with MCI, several IADLs relevant to functional decline were not studied. Measuring multiple IADL-related digital endpoints could offer more value than the measurement of discrete IADL outcomes alone to observe functional decline. Key recommendations include the development of suitable core metrics relevant to IADL-related behaviors that are based on clinically meaningful outcomes to aid the standardization and further validation of digital technologies against existing IADL measures. Increased longitudinal monitoring is necessary to capture changes in digital IADL endpoints over time in people with MCI. PROSPERO International Prospective Register of Systematic Reviews CRD42022326861; https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/prospero/display_record.php?RecordID=326861