Social media has emerged as a prominent approach for health education and promotion. However, it is challenging to understand how to best promote health-related information on social media platforms such as Twitter. Despite commercial tools and prior studies attempting to analyze influence, there is a gap to fill in developing a publicly accessible and consolidated framework to measure influence and analyze dissemination strategies. We aimed to develop a theoretical framework to measure topic-specific user influence on Twitter and to examine its usability by analyzing dietary sodium tweets to support public health agencies in improving their dissemination strategies. We designed a consolidated framework for measuring influence that can capture topic-specific tweeting behaviors. The core of the framework is a summary indicator of influence decomposable into 4 dimensions: activity, priority, originality, and popularity. These measures can be easily visualized and efficiently computed for any Twitter account without the need for private access. We demonstrated the proposed methods by using a case study on dietary sodium tweets with sampled stakeholders and then compared the framework with a traditional measure of influence. More than half a million dietary sodium tweets from 2006 to 2022 were retrieved for 16 US domestic and international stakeholders in 4 categories, that is, public agencies, academic institutions, professional associations, and experts. We discovered that World Health Organization, American Heart Association, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (UN-FAO), and World Action on Salt (WASH) were the top 4 sodium influencers in the sample. Each had different strengths and weaknesses in their dissemination strategies, and 2 stakeholders with similar overall influence, that is, UN-FAO and WASH, could have significantly different tweeting patterns. In addition, we identified exemplars in each dimension of influence. Regarding tweeting activity, a dedicated expert published more sodium tweets than any organization in the sample in the past 16 years. In terms of priority, WASH had more than half of its tweets dedicated to sodium. UN-FAO had both the highest proportion of original sodium tweets and posted the most popular sodium tweets among all sampled stakeholders. Regardless of excellence in 1 dimension, the 4 most influential stakeholders excelled in at least 2 out of 4 dimensions of influence. Our findings demonstrate that our method not only aligned with a traditional measure of influence but also advanced influence analysis by analyzing the 4 dimensions that contribute to topic-specific influence. This consolidated framework provides quantifiable measures for public health entities to understand their bottleneck of influence and refine their social media campaign strategies. Our framework can be applied to improve the dissemination of other health topics as well as assist policy makers and public campaign experts to maximize population impact.