Artificial intelligence (AI) can improve the health and well-being of older adults and has the potential to assist and improve nursing care. In recent years, research in this area has been increasing. Therefore, it is necessary to understand the status of development and main research hotspots and identify the main contributors and their relationships in the application of AI in geriatric care via bibliometric analysis. Using bibliometric analysis, this study aims to examine the current research hotspots and collaborative networks in the application of AI in geriatric care over the past 23 years. The Web of Science Core Collection database was used as a source. All publications from inception to August 2022 were downloaded. The external characteristics of the publications were summarized through HistCite and the Web of Science. Keywords and collaborative networks were analyzed using VOSviewers and Citespace. We obtained a total of 230 publications. The works originated in 499 institutions in 39 countries, were published in 124 journals, and were written by 1216 authors. Publications increased sharply from 2014 to 2022, accounting for 90.87% (209/230) of all publications. The United States and the International Journal of Social Robotics had the highest number of publications on this topic. The 1216 authors were divided into 5 main clusters. Among the 230 publications, 4 clusters were modeled, including Alzheimer disease, aged care, acceptance, and the surveillance and treatment of diseases. Machine learning, deep learning, and rehabilitation had also become recent research hotspots. Research on the application of AI in geriatric care has developed rapidly. The development of research and cooperation among countries/regions and institutions are limited. In the future, strengthening the cooperation and communication between different countries/regions and institutions may further drive this field’s development. This study provides researchers with the information necessary to understand the current state, collaborative networks, and main research hotspots of the field. In addition, our results suggest a series of recommendations for future research.