Social media sites are becoming an increasingly important source of information about mental health disorders. Among them, eating disorders are complex psychological problems that involve unhealthy eating habits. In particular, there is evidence showing that signs and symptoms of anorexia nervosa can be traced in social media platforms. Knowing that input data biases tend to be amplified by artificial intelligence algorithms and, in particular, machine learning, these methods should be revised to mitigate biased discrimination in such important domains. The main goal of this study was to detect and analyze the performance disparities across genders in algorithms trained for the detection of anorexia nervosa on social media posts. We used a collection of automated predictors trained on a data set in Spanish containing cases of 177 users that showed signs of anorexia (471,262 tweets) and 326 control cases (910,967 tweets). We first inspected the predictive performance differences between the algorithms for male and female users. Once biases were detected, we applied a feature-level bias characterization to evaluate the source of such biases and performed a comparative analysis of such features and those that are relevant for clinicians. Finally, we showcased different bias mitigation strategies to develop fairer automated classifiers, particularly for risk assessment in sensitive domains. Our results revealed concerning predictive performance differences, with substantially higher false negative rates (FNRs) for female samples (FNR=0.082) compared with male samples (FNR=0.005). The findings show that biological processes and suicide risk factors were relevant for classifying positive male cases, whereas age, emotions, and personal concerns were more relevant for female cases. We also proposed techniques for bias mitigation, and we could see that, even though disparities can be mitigated, they cannot be eliminated. We concluded that more attention should be paid to the assessment of biases in automated methods dedicated to the detection of mental health issues. This is particularly relevant before the deployment of systems that are thought to assist clinicians, especially considering that the outputs of such systems can have an impact on the diagnosis of people at risk.