Mitral regurgitation (MR) and tricuspid regurgitation (TR) are common cardiac conditions with high mortality risks, which can be improved through early intervention. Telehealth services, which allow for remote monitoring of patient conditions, have been proven to improve the health management of chronic diseases, but the effects on MR and TR progression are unknown. This study aimed to explore whether patients receiving telehealth services have less MR and TR progression compared with a control group. We also aimed to identify the determinants of MR and TR progression. This single-center retrospective study conducted at the National Taiwan University Hospital compared MR and TR progression (defined as either progression to moderate or greater MR and TR or MR and TR progression by ≥2 grades during the study period) between the telehealth and control groups. Patients had a minimum of 2 transthoracic echocardiograms at least 6 months apart; baseline mild-moderate MR and TR or lower; and no prior surgeries on the mitral or tricuspid valve. Telehealth patients were defined as those who received telehealth services for at least 28 days within 3 months of baseline. Basic demographics, baseline blood pressure measurements, prescribed medication, and Charlson Comorbidity Index components were obtained for all patients. A total of 1081 patients (n=226 in the telehealth group and n=855 in the control group) were included in the study analyses. The telehealth group showed significantly lower baseline systolic blood pressure (P<.001), higher Charlson Comorbidity Index (P=.02), higher prevalence of prior myocardial infarction (P=.01) and heart failure (P<.001), higher beta-blocker (P=.03) and diuretic (P=.04) use, and lower nitrate use (P=.04). Both groups showed similar cardiac remodeling conditions at baseline. Telehealth was found to be neutral for both MR (hazard ratio 1.10, 95% CI 0.80-1.52;P=.52) and TR (hazard ratio 1.27, 95% CI 0.92-1.74;P=.14) progression. Determinants for moderate or greater MR progression included older age, female sex, diuretic use, larger left atrial dimension, left ventricular end-diastolic dimension, left ventricular end-systolic dimension, and lower left ventricular ejection fraction. Determinants of moderate or greater TR progression included older age, female sex, diuretic use, presence of atrial fibrillation, LA dimension, left ventricular end-systolic dimension, and lower left ventricular ejection fraction; statin use was found to be protective. This is the first study to assess the association between telehealth services and the progression of MR and TR. Telehealth patients, who had more comorbidities, displayed similar MR and TR progression versus control patients, indicating that telehealth may slow MR and TR progression. Determinants of MR and TR progression included easy-to-measure traditional echo parameters of cardiac function, older age, female sex, and atrial fibrillation, which can be incorporated into a telehealth platform and advanced alert system, improving patient outcomes through personalized care.