Urinary incontinence (UI) is a highly prevalent health concern commonly observed during and after pregnancy that can substantially impact women’s physical and psychological well-being and quality of life. Owing to its numerous advantages, mobile health may be a promising solution; however, it is unclear whether the app-based intervention can effectively improve UI symptoms during and after pregnancy. This study aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of the Urinary Incontinence for Women (UIW) app–based intervention for UI symptom improvement among pregnant women in China. Singleton pregnant women without incontinence before pregnancy who were aged ≥18 years and between 24 and 28 weeks of gestation were recruited from a tertiary public hospital in China and were randomly allocated (1:1) to either an experimental group (n=63) or a control group (n=63). The experimental group received the UIW app intervention and oral pelvic floor muscle training (PFMT) instructions, whereas the control group received oral PFMT instructions alone. Neither the participants nor the researchers were blinded to the intervention. The primary outcome was UI severity. The secondary outcomes included quality of life, self-efficacy with PFMT, and knowledge of UI. All data were collected at baseline, 2 months after randomization, and 6 weeks post partum through electronic questionnaires or by checking the electronic medical record system. Data analysis followed the intention-to-treat principle. A linear mixed model was used to examine the intervention effect on primary and secondary outcomes. Participants in the experimental and control groups were comparable at baseline. Of the 126 overall participants, 117 (92.9%) and 103 (81.7%) women completed follow-up visits at 2 months after randomization and 6 weeks after delivery, respectively. A statistically significant difference in UI symptom severity was observed between the experimental group and control group (2 months after randomization: mean difference −2.86, 95% CI −4.09 to −1.64,P<.001; 6 weeks post partum: mean difference −2.68, 95% CI −3.87 to −1.49,P<.001). For the secondary outcomes, a statistically significant intervention effect on the quality of life, self-efficacy, and UI knowledge was found at the 2-month follow-up (allP<.05) and 6 weeks post partum (allP<.001). The app-based UI self-management intervention (UIW) effectively improved UI symptom severity, quality of life, self-efficacy with PFMT, and knowledge of UI during the late pregnancy and early postnatal periods. Larger multicenter studies with a longer postpartum follow-up are required to further extend these findings. Chinese Clinical Trial Registry ChiCTR1800016171; http://www.chictr.org.cn/showproj.aspx?proj=27455 RR2-10.2196/22771