Social media platforms such as YouTube can be used to educate people of reproductive age about healthy and nonrisky sexual and reproductive health (SRH) practices and behaviors. However, there is a paucity of evidence to ascertain the authenticity of sexuality and SRH content on Kinyarwanda YouTube, making it difficult to determine the extent to which these topics are covered, the characteristics of available videos, and the themes covered by these videos. The aims of this study were (1) to determine the extent to which YouTube channels in Kinyarwanda-language videos address sexuality and SRH issues, identify the general characteristics of the available videos (type of video, when published, intention for the audience, and content focus), and the aspects of sexuality and SRH covered; and (2) to identify the themes covered by retrieved Kinyarwanda videos, and the extent to which the channels have been used to communicate issues of sexuality and SRH during the COVID-19 pandemic. Using a content analysis approach, we searched Kinyarwanda YouTube channels to analyze videos about sexuality and SRH. The adopted framework for data collection from social media platforms builds on three key steps: (1) development, (2) application, and (3) assessment of search filters. To be included, an audio and/or visual video had to be in Kinyarwanda and the video had to be directed to the general public. Descriptive statistics (frequency and percentages) were computed to characterize the basic characteristics of retrieved channels, portrayal of the videos, and presentation of sexuality and SRH themes that emerged from retrieved videos. Further analysis involved cross-tabulations to explore associations between the focus of the channel and the date when the channel was opened and the focus of the channel and who was involved in the video. The YouTube search retrieved 21,506 videos that tackled sexuality and SRH topics. During the COVID-19 pandemic, there was a 4-fold increase (from 7.2% to 30.6%) in channels that solely focused on sexually explicit content. The majority of the 1369 retrieved channels (n=1150, 84.0%) tackled the topic of sexuality, with sexually explicit content predominantly found in the majority of these videos (n=1082, 79%), and only 16% (n=287) of the videos covered SRH topics. This is the first study to analyze the use of YouTube in communicating about sexuality and SRH in the Kinyarwanda language. This study relied on videos that appeared online. Further research should gather information about who accesses the videos, and how channel owners and individuals involved in the videos perceive the impact of their videos on the Rwandan community’s sexuality and SRH.