British Columbia has over 200 rural, remote, and Indigenous communities that have limited health care resources due to physician isolation, sparsity in clinical resources, the lack of collegial support, and provider burnout. Real-time virtual support (RTVS) peer-to-peer pathways provide support to patients and providers. Amid the COVID-19 pandemic exacerbating existing health care disparities and equitable access to timely care, RTVS presents a portable and additional opportunity to be deployed in a hospital or patient home setting in rural communities. We highlight the story of the Rural Urgent Doctor in-aid (RUDi) pathway within RTVS that successfully supported the Dawson Creek District Hospital (DCDH) emergency department (ED) in 2021. This study aims to describe the rapid implementation process and identify facilitators and barriers to successful implementation. This case study is grounded in the Quadruple Aim and Social Accountability frameworks for health systems learning. The entire study period was approximately 6 months. After 1 week of implementation, we interviewed RUDi physicians, DCDH staff, health authority leadership, and RTVS staff to gather their experiences. Content analysis was used to identify themes that emerged from the interviews. RUDi physicians covered 39 overnight shifts and were the most responsible providers (MRPs) for 245 patients who presented to the DCDH ED. A total of 17 interviews with key informants revealed important themes related to leadership and relationships as facilitators of the coverage’s success, the experience of remote physician support, providing a “safety net,” finding new ways of interprofessional collaboration, and the need for extensive IT support throughout. Quality improvement findings identified barriers and demonstrated tangible recommendations for how this model of support can be improved in future cases. By acting as the MRP during overnight ED shifts, RUDi prevented the closure of the DCDH ED and the diversion of patients to another rural hospital. Rapid codevelopment and implementation of digital health solutions can be leveraged with existing partnerships and mutual trust between RTVS and rural EDs to ease the pressures of a physician shortage, particularly during COVID-19. By establishing new and modified clinical workflows, RTVS provides a safety net for rural patients and providers challenged by burnout. This case study provides learnings to be implemented to serve future rural, remote, and Indigenous communities in crisis.