Vaccine hesitancy has been deemed one of the top 10 threats to global health. Antivaccine information on social media is a major barrier to addressing vaccine hesitancy. Understanding how vaccine proponents and opponents interact with each other on social media may help address vaccine hesitancy. We aimed to examine conversations between vaccine proponents and opponents on Reddit to understand whether homophily in web-based conversations impedes opinion exchange, whether people are able to accommodate their languages to each other in web-based conversations, and whether engaging with opposing viewpoints stimulates higher levels of analytical thinking. We analyzed large-scale conversational text data about human vaccines on Reddit from 2016 to 2018. Using deep neural network language models and computer-assisted conversational analyses, we obtained each Redditor’s stance on vaccines, each post’s stance on vaccines, each Redditor’s language coordination score, and each post or comment’s analytical thinking score. We then performed chi-square tests, 2-tailedttests, and multilevel modeling to test 3 questions of interest. The results show that both provaccine and antivaccine Redditors are more likely to selectively respond to Redditors who indicate similar views on vaccines (P<.001). When Redditors interact with others who hold opposing views on vaccines, both provaccine and antivaccine Redditors accommodate their language to out-group members (provaccine Redditors:P=.044; antivaccine Redditors:P=.047) and show no difference in analytical thinking compared with interacting with congruent views (P=.63), suggesting that Redditors do not engage in motivated reasoning. Antivaccine Redditors, on average, showed higher analytical thinking in their posts and comments than provaccine Redditors (P<.001). This study shows that although vaccine proponents and opponents selectively communicate with their in-group members on Reddit, they accommodate their language and do not engage in motivated reasoning when communicating with out-group members. These findings may have implications for the design of provaccine campaigns on social media.