In 2021 alone, diabetes mellitus, a metabolic disorder primarily characterized by abnormally high blood glucose (BG) levels, affected 537 million people globally, and over 6 million deaths were reported. The use of noninvasive technologies, such as wearable devices (WDs), to regulate and monitor BG in people with diabetes is a relatively new concept and yet in its infancy. Noninvasive WDs coupled with machine learning (ML) techniques have the potential to understand and conclude meaningful information from the gathered data and provide clinically meaningful advanced analytics for the purpose of forecasting or prediction. The purpose of this study is to provide a systematic review complete with a quality assessment looking at diabetes effectiveness of using artificial intelligence (AI) in WDs for forecasting or predicting BG levels. We searched 7 of the most popular bibliographic databases. Two reviewers performed study selection and data extraction independently before cross-checking the extracted data. A narrative approach was used to synthesize the data. Quality assessment was performed using an adapted version of the Quality Assessment of Diagnostic Accuracy Studies-2 (QUADAS-2) tool. From the initial 3872 studies, the features from 12 studies were reported after filtering according to our predefined inclusion criteria. The reference standard in all studies overall (n=11, 92%) was classified as low, as all ground truths were easily replicable. Since the data input to AI technology was highly standardized and there was no effect of flow or time frame on the final output, both factors were categorized in a low-risk group (n=11, 92%). It was observed that classical ML approaches were deployed by half of the studies, the most popular being ensemble-boosted trees (random forest). The most common evaluation metric used was Clarke grid error (n=7, 58%), followed by root mean square error (n=5, 42%). The wide usage of photoplethysmogram and near-infrared sensors was observed on wrist-worn devices. This review has provided the most extensive work to date summarizing WDs that use ML for diabetic-related BG level forecasting or prediction. Although current studies are few, this study suggests that the general quality of the studies was considered high, as revealed by the QUADAS-2 assessment tool. Further validation is needed for commercially available devices, but we envisage that WDs in general have the potential to remove the need for invasive devices completely for glucose monitoring in the not-too-distant future. PROSPERO CRD42022303175; https://tinyurl.com/3n9jaayc