The GRADE (Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation) approach is a system for transparent evaluation of the certainty of evidence used in clinical practice guidelines and systematic reviews. GRADE is a key part of evidence-based medicine (EBM) training of health care professionals. This study aimed to compare web-based and face-to-face methods of teaching the GRADE approach for evidence assessment. A randomized controlled trial was conducted on 2 delivery modes of GRADE education integrated into a course on research methodology and EBM with third-year medical students. Education was based on the Cochrane Interactive Learning “Interpreting the findings” module, which had a duration of 90 minutes. The web-based group received the web-based asynchronous training, whereas the face-to-face group had an in-person seminar with a lecturer. The main outcome measure was the score on a 5-question test that assessed confidence interval interpretation and overall certainty of evidence, among others. Secondary outcomes included writing a recommendation for practice and course satisfaction. In all, 50 participants received the web-based intervention, and 47 participants received the face-to-face intervention. The groups did not differ in the overall scores for the Cochrane Interactive Learning test, with a median of 2 (95% CI 1.0-2.0) correct answers for the web-based group and 2 (95% CI 1.3-3.0) correct answers for the face-to-face group. Both groups gave the most correct answers to the question about rating a body of evidence (35/50, 70% and 24/47, 51% for the web-based and face-to-face group, respectively). The face-to-face group better answered the question about the overall certainty of evidence question. The understanding of the Summary of Findings table did not differ significantly between the groups, with a median of 3 correct answers to 4 questions for both groups (P=.352). The writing style for the recommendations for practice also did not differ between the 2 groups. Students’ recommendations mostly reflected the strengths of the recommendations and focused on the target population, but they used passive words and rarely mentioned the setting for the recommendation. The language of the recommendations was mostly patient centered. Course satisfaction was high in both groups. Training in the GRADE approach could be equally effective when delivered asynchronously on the web or face-to-face. Open Science Framework akpq7; https://osf.io/akpq7/