Endometriosis is a debilitating and difficult-to-diagnose gynecological disease. Owing to limited information and awareness, women often rely on social media platforms as a support system to engage in discussions regarding their disease-related concerns. This study aimed to apply computational techniques to social media posts to identify discussion topics about endometriosis and to identify themes that require more attention from health care professionals and researchers. We also aimed to explore whether, amid the challenging nature of the disease, there are themes within the endometriosis community that gather posts with positive sentiments. We retrospectively extracted posts from the subreddits r/Endo and r/endometriosis from January 2011 to April 2022. We analyzed 45,693 Reddit posts using sentiment analysis and topic modeling–based methods in machine learning. Since 2011, the number of posts and comments has increased steadily. The posts were categorized into 11 categories, and the highest number of posts were related to either asking for information (Question); sharing the experiences (Rant/Vent); or diagnosing and treating endometriosis, especially surgery (Surgery related). Sentiment analysis revealed that 92.09% (42,077/45,693) of posts were associated with negative sentiments, only 2.3% (1053/45,693) expressed positive feelings, and there were no categories with more positive than negative posts. Topic modeling revealed 27 major topics, and the most popular topics wereSurgery,Questions/Advice,Diagnosis, andPain. TheSurvey/Researchtopic, which brought together most research-related posts, was the last in terms of posts. Our study shows that posts on social media platforms can provide insights into the concerns of women with endometriosis symptoms. The analysis of the posts confirmed that women with endometriosis have to face negative emotions and pain daily. The large number of posts related to asking questions shows that women do not receive sufficient information from physicians and need community support to cope with the disease. Health care professionals should pay more attention to the symptoms and diagnosis of endometriosis, discuss these topics with patients to reduce their dissatisfaction with doctors, and contribute more to the overall well-being of women with endometriosis. Researchers should also become more involved in social media and share new science-based knowledge regarding endometriosis.