Globally, diabetes affects approximately 500 million people and is predicted to affect up to 700 million people by 2045. In Australia, the ongoing impact of colonization produces inequity in health care delivery and inequality in health care outcomes for First Nations Peoples, with diabetes rates 4 times those of non-Indigenous Australians. Evidence-based clinical practice has been shown to reduce complications of diabetes-related foot disease, including ulceration and amputation, by 50%. However, factors such as a lack of access to culturally safe care, geographical remoteness, and high costs associated with in-person care are key barriers for First Nations Peoples in accessing evidence-based care, leading to the development of innovative mobile health (mHealth) apps as a way to increase access to health services and improve knowledge and self-care management for people with diabetes. This study aims to evaluate studies investigating the use of mHealth apps for the assessment and management of diabetes-related foot health in First Nations Peoples in Australia and non-Indigenous populations globally. PubMed, Informit’s Indigenous Collection database, Ovid MEDLINE, Embase, CINAHL Complete, and Scopus were searched from inception to September 8, 2022. Hand searches of gray literature and reference lists of included studies were conducted. Studies describing mHealth apps developed for the assessment and management of diabetes-related foot health were eligible. Studies must include an evaluation (qualitative or quantitative) of the mHealth app. No language, publication date, or publication status restrictions were used. Quality appraisal was performed using the revised Cochrane risk-of-bias tool for randomized trials and the Health Evidence Bulletins Wales checklists for observational, cohort, and qualitative studies. No studies specifically including First Nations Peoples in Australia were identified. Six studies in non-Indigenous populations with 361 participants were included. Foot care education was the main component of all mHealth apps. Of the 6 mHealth apps, 2 (33%) provided functionality for participants to enter health-related data; 1 (17%) included a messaging interface. The length of follow-up ranged from 1-6 months. Of the 6 studies, 1 (17%) reported high levels of acceptability of the mHealth app content for self-care by people with diabetes and diabetes specialists; the remaining 5 (83%) reported that participants had improved diabetes-related knowledge and self-management skills after using their mHealth app. The findings from this systematic review provide an overview of the features deployed in mHealth apps and indicate that this type of intervention can improve knowledge and self-care management skills in non-Indigenous people with diabetes. Future research needs to focus on mHealth apps for populations where there is inadequate or ineffective service delivery, including for First Nations Peoples and those living in geographically remote areas, as well as evaluate direct effects on diabetes-related foot disease outcomes. PROSPERO CRD42022349087; https://tinyurl.com/35u6mmzd