Social robots, as a form of digital health technologies, are used to support emotional, cognitive, and physical care and have shown promising outcomes in enhancing social well-being in people with dementia (PwD) by boosting emotions, social interactions, and activity participation. The goal is to investigate the attitude of stakeholders and potential facilitators and the barriers to implementing the social robot MINI in community-based meeting centers (MCs) for PwD and carers in the Netherlands and Spain. Based on the British Medical Research Council guidance for process evaluation of the implementation of complex interventions and the model for tracing the facilitators of and barriers to the adaptive implementation of innovations in dementia care, an explorative qualitative study was conducted. Following the introduction of the MINI robot, 11 stakeholders were interviewed in 3 MCs in the Netherlands and 1 in Spain, as well as stakeholders in health and welfare organizations in both countries. In addition, 12 adults with dementia participated in focus groups. The data were thematically analyzed and narratively described. Overall, the stakeholder opinion and interest in the MINI robot were positive. The most important (expected) facilitating factors mentioned by stakeholders appeared to be human resources, funding, the impact of the MINI robot on the users and programs of the MCs, characteristics of the innovation, and collaboration with other care and welfare organizations. However, the (expected) barriers mentioned concerned the physical context and functionalities of the MINI robot, the user context, and MC activity policies. The findings will inform professional stakeholders, such as MC directors and managers, as well as care and welfare organizations, on the practicality of using the MINI robot in MCs. Furthermore, our research will aid MINI robot developers in tailoring its features to PwD’s preferences and demands and MC policies, which will contribute to the MINI robot’s effective adoption and deployment.