Scientiﬁc studies from North America and Europe tend to predominate the internet and beneﬁt English-speaking users. Meanwhile, the COVID-19 death rate was high at the onset of the pandemic in Spanish-speaking countries, and information about nearby Caribbean countries was rarely highlighted. Given the rise in social media use in these regions, the web-based dissemination of scientific information related to COVID-19 must be thoroughly examined. This study aimed to provide a multidimensional analysis of peer-reviewed information circulation related to COVID-19 in Spanish-speaking and Caribbean regions. COVID-19–related, peer-reviewed resources shared by web-based accounts located in Spanish-speaking and Caribbean regions were identified through the Altmetric website, and their information was collected. A multidimensional model was used to examine these resources, considering time, individuality, place, activity, and relations. Time was operationalized as the 6 dates of data collection, individuality as the knowledge area and accessibility level, place as the publication venue and affiliation countries, activity as the Altmetric score and number of mentions in the selected regions, and relations as coauthorship between countries and types of social media users who disseminated COVID-19–related information. The highest information circulation peaks in Spanish-speaking countries were from April 2020 to August 2020 and from December 2020 to April 2021, whereas the highest peaks in Caribbean regions were from December 2019 to April 2020. Regarding Spanish-speaking regions, at the onset of the pandemic, scientific expertise was concentrated on a few peer-reviewed sources written in English. The top scientiﬁc journals mentioned were from English-speaking, westernized regions, whereas the top scientiﬁc authorships were from China. The most mentioned scientific resources were about breakthrough findings in the medical and health sciences area, written in highly technical language. The top relationships were self-loops in China, whereas international collaborations were between China and the United States. Argentina had high closeness and betweenness, and Spain had high closeness. On the basis of social media data, a combination of media outlets; educational institutions; and expert associations, particularly from Panama, influenced the diffusion of peer-reviewed information. We determined the diffusion patterns of peer-reviewed resources in Spanish-speaking countries and Caribbean territories. This study aimed to advance the management and analysis of web-based public data from non-white people to improve public health communication in their regions.