Breathing pattern disorders (BPDs) and inducible laryngeal obstruction (ILO) cause similar symptoms to asthma, including dyspnea and chest tightness, with an estimated prevalence of up to one-fifth of patients with asthma. Both conditions can be comorbid with asthma, and there is evidence that they are misdiagnosed and mistreated as asthma. This study aims to explore whether the symptoms of ILO and BPD were topics of discussion in a UK asthma online health community and patient experiences of diagnosis and treatment, in particular their use of reliever inhalers. A qualitative thematic analysis was performed with posts from an asthma community between 2018 and 2022. A list of key ILO or BPD symptoms was created from the literature. Posts were identified using the search terms “blue inhaler” and “breath” and included if describing key symptoms. Discussion threads of included posts were also analyzed. The search retrieved a total of 1127 relevant posts: 1069 written by 302 users and 58 posted anonymously. All participants were adults, except 2 who were parents writing about their children. Sex and age were only available for 1.66% (5/302; 3 females and 2 males) and 9.93% (30/302) of participants (27 to 73 years old), respectively. The average number of posts written by each participant was 3.54 (range 1-63). Seven participants wrote >20 posts each. Participants experiencing undiagnosed ILO or BPD symptoms, whether or not comorbid with asthma, expressed frustration with the “one-size-fits-all” approach to diagnosis, as many felt that their asthma diagnosis did not fully explain symptoms. Some suspected or were formally diagnosed with BPD or ILO, the latter reporting relief on receiving a diagnosis and appropriate management. Participants showed awareness of their inappropriate salbutamol use or overuse due to lack of effect on symptoms. BPD and ILO symptoms were frequently comorbid with asthma. The asthma online community was a valuable resource: engagement with peers not only brought comfort but also prompted action with some going back to their clinicians and reaching a diagnosis and appropriate management. Undiagnosed ILO and BPD symptoms and lack of effects of asthma treatment were topics of discussion in an asthma online community, caused distress and frustration in participants, and affected their relationship with health care professionals, showing that patients experiencing BPD and ILO have unmet needs. Clinicians’ education on BPD and ILO diagnosis and management, as well as increased access to appropriate management options, such as respiratory physiotherapy and speech and language therapy, are warranted particularly in primary care. Qualitative evidence that engagement with the online community resulted in patients taking action going back to their clinicians and reaching a diagnosis of ILO and BPD prompts future research on online peer support from an established online health community as a self-management resource for patients.