This scoping review explores and summarizes the existing literature on the use of chatbots to support and promote health in Africa. The primary aim was to learn where, and under what circumstances, chatbots have been used effectively for health in Africa; how chatbots have been developed to the best effect; and how they have been evaluated by looking at literature published between 2017 and 2022. A secondary aim was to identify potential lessons and best practices for others chatbots. The review also aimed to highlight directions for future research on the use of chatbots for health in Africa. Using the 2005 Arksey and O’Malley framework, we used a Boolean search to broadly search literature published between January 2017 and July 2022. Literature between June 2021 and July 2022 was identified using Google Scholar, EBSCO information services—which includes the African HealthLine, PubMed, MEDLINE, PsycInfo, Cochrane, Embase, Scopus, and Web of Science databases—and other internet sources (including gray literature). The inclusion criteria were literature about health chatbots in Africa published in journals, conference papers, opinion, or white papers. In all, 212 records were screened, and 12 articles met the inclusion criteria. Results were analyzed according to the themes they covered. The themes identified included the purpose of the chatbot as either providing aneducationalor information-sharing service or providing acounsellingservice.Accessibilityas a result of eithertechnicalrestrictions orlanguagerestrictions was also noted. Other themes that were identified included the need for the consideration oftrust,privacy and ethics, andevaluation. The findings demonstrate that current data are insufficient to show whether chatbots are effectively supporting health in the region. However, the review does reveal insights into popular chatbots and the need to make them accessible through language considerations, platform choice, and user trust, as well as the importance of robust evaluation frameworks to assess their impact. The review also provides recommendations on the direction of future research.