Cigarette smoking is a leading cause of preventable death, and identifying novel treatment approaches to promote smoking cessation is critical for improving public health. With the rise of digital health and mobile apps, these tools offer potential opportunities to address smoking cessation, yet the functionality of these apps and whether they offer scientifically based support for smoking cessation are unknown. The goal of this research was to use the American Psychiatric Association app evaluation model to evaluate the top-returned apps from Android and Apple app store platforms related to smoking cessation and investigate the common app features available for end users. We conducted a search of both Android and iOS app stores in July 2021 for apps related to the keywords “smoking,” “tobacco,” “smoke,” and “cigarette” to evaluate apps for smoking cessation. Apps were screened for relevance, and trained raters identified and analyzed features, including accessibility (ie, cost), privacy, clinical foundation, and features of the apps, using a systematic framework of 105 objective questions from the American Psychiatric Association app evaluation model. All app rating data were deposited in mindapps, a publicly accessible database that is continuously updated every 6 months given the dynamic nature of apps available in the marketplace. We characterized apps available in July 2021 and November 2022. We initially identified 389 apps, excluded 161 due to irrelevance and nonfunctioning, and rated 228, including 152 available for Android platforms and 120 available for iOS platforms. Some of the top-returned apps (71/228, 31%) in 2021 were no longer functioning in 2022. Our analysis of rated apps revealed limitations in accessibility and features. While most apps (179/228, 78%) were free to download, over half had costs associated with in-app purchases or full use. Less than 65% (149/228) had a privacy policy addressing the data collected in the app. In terms of intervention features, more than 56% (128/228) of apps allowed the user to set and check in on goals, and more than 46% (106/228) of them provided psychoeducation, although few apps provided evidence-based support for smoking cessation, such as peer support or skill training, including mindfulness and deep breathing, and even fewer provided evidence-based interventions, such as acceptance and commitment therapy or cognitive behavioral therapy. Only 12 apps in 2021 and 11 in 2022 had published studies supporting the feasibility or efficacy for smoking cessation. Numerous smoking cessation apps were identified, but analysis revealed limitations, including high rates of irrelevant and nonfunctioning apps, high rates of turnover, and few apps providing evidence-based support for smoking cessation. Thus, it may be challenging for consumers to identify relevant, evidence-based apps to support smoking cessation in the app store, and a comprehensive evaluation system of mental health apps is critically important.