Digital health engagement may serve many support functions, such as providing access to information; checking or evaluating one’s state of health; and tracking, monitoring, or sharing health data. Many digital health engagement behaviors are associated with the potential to reduce inequalities in information and communication. However, initial studies suggest that health inequalities may persist in the digital realm. This study aimed to explore the functions of digital health engagement by describing how frequently respective services are used for a range of purposes and how these purposes can be categorized from the users’ perspective. This study also aimed to identify the prerequisites for successfully implementing and using digital health services; therefore, we shed light on the predisposing, enabling, and need factors that may predict digital health engagement for different functions. Data were gathered via computer-assisted telephone interviews during the second wave of the German adaption of the Health Information National Trends Survey in 2020 (N=2602). The weighted data set allowed for nationally representative estimates. Our analysis focused on internet users (n=2001). Engagement with digital health services was measured by their reported use for 19 different purposes. Descriptive statistics showed the frequency with which digital health services were used for these purposes. Using a principal component analysis, we identified the underlying functions of these purposes. Using binary logistic regression models, we analyzed which predisposing factors (age and sex), enabling factors (socioeconomic status, health- and information-related self-efficacy, and perceived target efficacy), and need factors (general health status and chronic health condition) can predict the use of the distinguished functions. Digital health engagement was most commonly linked to acquiring information and less frequently to more active or interactive purposes such as sharing health information with other patients or health professionals. Across all purposes, the principal component analysis identified 2 functions.Information-related empowermentcomprised items on acquiring health information in various forms, critically assessing one’s state of health, and preventing health problems. In total, 66.62% (1333/2001) of internet users engaged in this behavior.Health care–related organization and communicationincluded items on patient-provider communication and organizing health care. It was applied by 52.67% (1054/2001) of internet users. Binary logistic regression models showed that the use of both functions was determined by predisposing factors (female and younger age) and certain enabling factors (higher socioeconomic status) and need factors (having a chronic condition). Although a large share of German internet users engage with digital health services, predictors show that existing health-related disparities prevail in the digital realm. To make use of the potential of digital health services, fostering digital health literacy at different levels, especially in vulnerable groups, is key.