Although physical activity (PA) decreases dramatically during hospitalization, an effective intervention method has not yet been established for this issue. We recently developed a multiperson PA monitoring system using information and communication technology (ICT) that can provide appropriate management and feedback about PA at the bedside or during rehabilitation. This ICT-based PA monitoring system can store accelerometer data on a tablet device within a few seconds and automatically display a graphical representation of activity trends during hospitalization. This randomized pilot study aims to estimate the feasibility and effect size of an educational PA intervention using our ICT monitoring system for in-hospital patients undergoing cardiac rehabilitation. A total of 41 patients (median age 70 years; 24 men) undergoing inpatient cardiac rehabilitation were randomly assigned to 2 groups as follows: wearing an accelerometer only (control) and using both an accelerometer and an ICT-based PA monitoring system. Patients assigned to the ICT group were instructed to gradually increase their step counts according to their conditions. Adherence to wearing the accelerometer was defined as having enough wear records for at least 2 days to allow for adequate analysis during the lending period. An analysis of covariance was performed to compare the change in average step count during hospitalization as a primary outcome and the 6-minute walking distance at discharge. The median duration of wearing the accelerometer was 4 days in the ICT group and 6 days in the control group. Adherence was 100% (n=22) in the ICT group but 83% (n=20) in the control group. The ICT group was more active (mean difference=1370 steps, 95% CI 437-2303) and had longer 6-minute walking distances (mean difference=81.6 m, 95% CI 18.1-145.2) than the control group. Through this study, the possibility of introducing a multiperson PA monitoring system in a hospital and promoting PA during hospitalization was demonstrated. These findings support the rationale and feasibility of a future clinical trial to test the efficacy of this educational intervention in improving the PA and physical function of in-hospital patients. University Hospital Medical Information Network UMIN000043312; http://tinyurl.com/m2bw8vkz