Digital technologies such as mobile apps and robotics have the potential to involve stroke patients better in the care process and to promote self-management. However, barriers exist that constrain the adoption and acceptance of technology in clinical practice. Examples of barriers are privacy concerns, challenges regarding usability, and the perception that there is no need for health-related technology. To address these barriers, co-design can be used to enable patients to reflect on their experiences of a service and to tailor digital technologies to the needs and preferences of end users regarding content and usability. This study aims to explore the perspectives of stroke patients toward how digital health technology could support self-management regarding health and well-being, as well as integrated stroke care. A qualitative study was conducted to understand patient perspectives. Data were collected in co-design sessions during the ValueCare study. Patients from a Dutch hospital who experienced an ischemic stroke (n=36) within the past 18 months were invited to participate. Data collection took place between December 2020 and April 2021 via one-to-one telephone interviews. A short self-report questionnaire was used to collect data on sociodemographics, disease-specific information, and technology use. All interviews were audio-taped and transcribed verbatim. The interview data were analyzed using a thematic approach. Patients held mixed attitudes toward digital health technologies. Some patients viewed digital technology as a convenient product or service, while others expressed no desire or need to use technology for self-management or care. Digital features suggested by stroke patients included (1) information about the causes of stroke, medication, prognosis, and follow-up care; (2) an online library with information regarding stroke-related health and care issues; (3) a personal health record by which patients can retrieve and manage their own health information; and (4) online rehabilitation support to empower patients to exercise at home. Regarding the user interface of future digital health technology, patients emphasized the need for easy-to-use and simple designs. Stroke patients mentioned credible health information, an online library with stroke-related health and care information, a personal health record, and online rehabilitation support as the main features to include in future digital health technologies. We recommend that developers and designers of digital health for stroke care listen to the “voice of the stroke patients” regarding both functionality and the characteristics of the interface. RR2-10.1186/s12877-022-03333-8