To ensure the timely diagnosis of emerging infectious diseases, high-tech molecular biotechnology is often used to detect pathogens and has gradually become the gold standard for virological testing. However, beginners and students are often unable to practice their skills due to the higher costs associated with high-level virological testing, the increasing complexity of the equipment, and the limited number of specimens from patients. Therefore, a new training program is necessary to increase training and reduce the risk of test failure. The aim of the study is to (1) develop and implement a virtual reality (VR) software for simulated and interactive high-level virological testing that can be applied in clinical practice and skills building or training settings and (2) evaluate the VR simulation’s effectiveness on reaction, learning, and behavior of the students (trainees). Viral nucleic acid tests on a BD MAX instrument were selected for our VR project because it is a high-tech automatic detection system. There was cooperation between teachers of medical technology and biomedical engineering. Medical technology teachers were responsible for designing the lesson plan, and the biomedical engineering personnel developed the VR software. We designed a novel VR teaching software to simulate cognitive learning via various procedure scenarios and interactive models. The VR software contains 2D VR “cognitive test and learning” lessons and 3D VR “practical skills training” lessons. We evaluated students’ learning effectiveness pre- and posttraining and then recorded their behavior patterns when answering questions, performing repeated exercises, and engaging in clinical practice. The results showed that the use of the VR software met participants’ needs and enhanced their interest in learning. The average posttraining scores of participants exposed to 2D and 3D VR training were significantly higher than participants who were exposed solely to traditional demonstration teaching (P<.001). Behavioral assessments of students pre- and posttraining showed that students exposed to VR-based training to acquire relevant knowledge of advanced virological testing exhibited significantly improved knowledge of specific items posttraining (P<.01). A higher participant score led to fewer attempts when responding to each item in a matching task. Thus, VR can enhance students’ understanding of difficult topics. The VR program designed for this study can reduce the costs associated with virological testing training, thus, increasing their accessibility for students and beginners. It can also reduce the risk of viral infections particularly during disease outbreaks (eg, the COVID-19 pandemic) and also enhance students’ learning motivation to strengthen their practical skills.