Several studies have demonstrated the efficacy and user acceptance of telehealth in managing patients with chronic conditions, including continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD). However, the rates of telehealth service use in various patient groups have been low and have declined over time, which may affect important health outcomes. Telehealth service use in patients undergoing CAPD has been recognized as a key challenge that needs to be examined further. This study aimed to explore the rates of telehealth service use over 4 months, identify factors influencing its use, and examine the relationship between telehealth service use and health outcomes in Thai people undergoing CAPD. This cross-sectional study, which was a part of a pragmatic randomized controlled trial study, was conducted at a dialysis center in Bangkok, Thailand. The study included patients who were undergoing CAPD. These patients were randomly enrolled in the intervention group to receive telehealth service and additional standard care for 4 months. Data were collected using self-reported questionnaires, including a demographic form, Functional, Communicative, and Critical Health Literacy Scale, Perceived Usefulness Questionnaire, Brief Illness Perception Questionnaire, Patient-Doctor Relationship Questionnaire, and Kidney Disease Quality of Life 36 Questionnaire. Additionally, Google Analytics was used to obtain data on the actual use of the telehealth service. These data were analyzed using descriptive statistics, repeated-measures ANOVA, and regression analyses. A total of 159 patients were included in this study. The mean rate of telehealth service use throughout the period of 4 months was 62.06 (SD 49.71) times. The rate of telehealth service use was the highest in the first month (mean 23.48, SD 16.28 times) and the lowest in the third month (mean 11.09, SD 11.48 times). Independent variables explained 27.6% of the sample variances in telehealth service use. Older age (β=.221;P=.002), higher perceived usefulness (β=.414;P<.001), unemployment (β=−.155;P=.03), and positive illness perception (β=−.205;P=.004) were associated with a significantly higher rate of telehealth service use. Regarding the relationship between telehealth service use and health outcomes, higher rates of telehealth service use were linked to better quality of life (β=.241;P=.002) and lower peritonitis (odds ratio 0.980, 95% CI 0.962-0.997;P=.03). This study provides valuable insights into factors impacting telehealth service use, which in turn affect health outcomes in patients undergoing CAPD.