The World Health Organization recommends regular hand hygiene monitoring and feedback to improve hand hygiene behaviors and health care–associated infection rates. Intelligent technologies for hand hygiene are increasingly being developed as alternative or supplemental monitoring approaches. However, there is insufficient evidence regarding the effect of this type of intervention, with conflicting results in the literature. We conduct a systematic review and meta-analysis to evaluate the effects of using intelligent technology for hand hygiene in hospitals. We searched 7 databases from inception to December 31, 2022. Two reviewers independently and blindly selected studies, extracted data, and assessed the risk of bias. A meta-analysis was performed using the RevMan 5.3 and STATA 15.1 software. Sensitivity and subgroup analyses were also conducted. Overall certainty of evidence was appraised using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation approach. The systematic review protocol was registered. The 36 studies comprised 2 randomized controlled trials and 34 quasi-experimental studies. The included intelligent technologies involved 5 functions: performance reminders，electronic counting and remote monitoring，data processing，feedback，and education. Compared with usual care, the intelligent technology intervention for hand hygiene improved health care workers’ hand hygiene compliance (risk ratio 1.56, 95% CI 1.47-1.66;P<.001), reduced health care–associated infection rates (risk ratio 0.25, 95% CI 0.19-0.33;P<.001), and was not associated with multidrug-resistant organism detection rates (risk ratio 0.53, 95% CI 0.27-1.04;P=.07). Three covariates, including publication year, study design, and intervention, were not factors of hand hygiene compliance or hospital-acquired infection rates analyzed by meta-regression. Sensitivity analysis showed stable results except for the pooled outcome of multidrug-resistant organism detection rates. The caliber of 3 pieces of evidence suggested a dearth of high-caliber research. Intelligent technologies for hand hygiene play an integral role in hospital. However, low quality of evidence and important heterogeneity were observed. Larger clinical trials are required to evaluate the impact of intelligent technology on multidrug-resistant organism detection rates and other clinical outcomes.