Excessive gestational weight gain (GWG) and gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) are common pregnancy complications that have been shown to be preventable through the use of lifestyle interventions. However, a significant gap exists between research on pregnancy lifestyle interventions and translation into clinical practice. App-supported interventions might aid in overcoming previous implementation barriers. The current status in this emerging research area is unknown. This scoping review aims to provide a comprehensive overview of planned, ongoing, and completed studies on eHealth and mobile health (mHealth) app–supported lifestyle interventions in pregnancy to manage GWG and prevent GDM. The review assesses the scope of the literature in the field; describes the population, intervention, control, outcomes, and study design (PICOS) characteristics of included studies as well as the findings on GWG and GDM outcomes; and examines app functionalities. The scoping review was conducted according to a preregistered protocol and followed established frameworks. Four electronic databases and 2 clinical trial registers were systematically searched. All randomized and quasi-randomized controlled trials (RCTs) of app-supported lifestyle interventions in pregnancy and related qualitative and quantitative research across the different study phases were considered for inclusion. Eligible studies and reports of studies were included until June 2022. Extracted data were compiled in descriptive analyses and reported in narrative, tabular, and graphical formats. This review included 97 reports from 43 lifestyle intervention studies. The number of published reports has steadily increased in recent years; of the 97 included reports, 38 (39%) were trial register entries. Of the 39 identified RCTs, 10 efficacy or effectiveness trials and 8 pilot trials had published results on GWG (18/39, 46%); of these 18 trials, 7 (39%) trials observed significant intervention effects on GWG outcomes. Of all 39 RCTs, 5 (13%) efficacy or effectiveness trials reported GDM results, but none observed significant intervention effects on GDM. The RCTs included in the review were heterogeneous in terms of their PICOS characteristics. Most of the RCTs were conducted in high-income countries, included women with overweight or obesity and from all BMI categories, delivered multicomponent interventions, delivered interventions during pregnancy only, and focused on diet and physical activity. The apps used in the studies were mostly mHealth apps that included features for self-monitoring, feedback, goal setting, prompts, and educational content. Self-monitoring was often supported by wearable activity monitors and Bluetooth-connected weight scales. Research in this field is nascent, and the effectiveness and implementability of app-supported interventions have yet to be determined. The complexity and heterogeneity of intervention approaches pose challenges in identifying the most beneficial app features and intervention components and call for consistent and comprehensive intervention and outcome reporting.