Memory strategy training for older adults helps maintain and improve cognitive health but is traditionally offered face-to-face, which is resource intensive, limits accessibility, and is challenging during a pandemic. Web-based interventions, such as the Online Personalised Training in Memory Strategies for Everyday (OPTIMiSE) program, may overcome such barriers. We report on OPTIMiSE’s feasibility, acceptability, and efficacy. Australians aged ≥60 years reporting subjective cognitive decline participated in this single-arm pre-post web-based intervention. OPTIMiSE is a 6-module web-based program offered over 8-weeks with a 3-month booster. It has a problem-solving approach to memory issues, focusing on psychoeducation about memory and aging, knowledge and practice of compensatory memory strategies, and personalized content related to individual priorities. We examined the feasibility (recruitment, attrition, and data collection), acceptability (recommendation to others, suggestions for improvement, and withdrawal reasons), and efficacy (change in goal satisfaction, strategy knowledge and use, self-reported memory, memory satisfaction and knowledge, and mood; thematic content analysis of the most significant change; and the application of knowledge and strategies in daily life) of OPTIMiSE. OPTIMiSE was feasible, demonstrated by strong interest (633 individuals screened), a satisfactory level of attrition (158/312, 50.6%), and minimal missing data from those completing the intervention. It was acceptable, with 97.4% (150/154) of participants agreeing they would recommend OPTIMiSE, the main suggestion for improvement being more time to complete modules, and withdrawal reasons similar to those in in-person interventions. OPTIMiSE was also efficacious, with linear mixed-effects analyses revealing improvements, of moderate to large effect sizes, across all primary outcomes (allP<.001): memory goal satisfaction (Cohendafter course=1.24; Cohendat 3-month booster=1.64), strategy knowledge (Cohendafter course=0.67; Cohendat 3-month booster=0.72) and use (Cohendafter course=0.79; Cohendat 3-month booster=0.90), self-reported memory (Cohendafter course=0.80; Cohendat 3-month booster=0.83), memory satisfaction (Cohendafter course=1.25; Cohendat 3-month booster=1.29) and knowledge (Cohendafter course=0.96; Cohendat 3-month booster=0.26), and mood (Cohendafter course=−0.35; nonsignificant Cohendat booster). Furthermore, the most significant changes reported by participants (strategy use, improvements in daily life, reduced concern about memory,confidence and self-efficacy, andsharing and shame busting with others) reflected the course objectives and were consistent with themes arising from previous in-person interventions. At the 3-month booster, many participants reported continued implementation of knowledge and strategies in their daily lives. This feasible, acceptable, and efficacious web-based program has the potential to enable access to evidence-based memory interventions for older adults worldwide. Notably, the changes in knowledge, beliefs, and strategy use continued beyond the initial program. This is particularly important for supporting the growing number of older adults living with cognitive concerns. Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry ACTRN12620000979954; https://tinyurl.com/34cdantv RR2-10.3233/ADR-200251