In neurorehabilitation, the use of innovative technologies offers many opportunities to monitor and improve the health status of patients with severe acquired brain injury (SABI). Telerehabilitation allows for continuity of service through the entire rehabilitation cycle, including assessment, intervention, consultation, and education, affording early reintegration and positively enhancing the quality of life (QoL). The main purpose of this multicenter randomized controlled trial was to test the effectiveness of advanced training provided using a nonimmersive virtual reality rehabilitation system (ie, the VRRS HomeKit device) in improving functional outcomes in patients with SABI. In total, 40 patients with SABI and their 40 caregivers visiting 2 Italian rehabilitation centers were enrolled in the study protocol and randomized into 2 groups. Of the 40 patients, 20 (50%) underwent the experimental training using the VRRS HomeKit (teleneuro-VRRS group), whereas the other 20 (50%) were administered usual territorial rehabilitative treatments (UTRTs; control group). To investigate motor and neuropsychological functioning, patients with SABI were evaluated before (T0) and at the end of (T1) each training session by a multispecialist team through a complete clinical and psychometric battery: the Barthel Index (BI), the Tinetti Scale (TS), the Modified Ashworth Scale (MAS), the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCa), the Frontal Assessment Battery (FAB), the Beck Depression Inventory II (BDI-II), the Short Form Health Survey 36 (SF-36), and the Psychological General Well-Being Index (PGWBI). In addition, the Caregiver Burden Inventory (CBI) was administered to each caregiver to investigate the emotional burden status. The teleneuro-VRRS group achieved a statistically significant improvement in both general and motor outcomes, as well as psychological well-being and QoL, compared to the control group. In particular, the BI (P<.001), FAB (P<.001), and BDI-II (P<.001) were the outcome scales with the best improvement. The burden of caregivers also significantly improved in the teleneuro-VRRS group (CBI;P<.004). Between-group analysis showed statistical differences in the anxiety (effect size [ES]=0.85,P<.02) and self-control (ES=0.40,P<.03) subtests of the PGWBI and in the social role functioning (ES=0.85,P<.02) subtest of the SF-36, confirmed by quite medium and large ESs. Our results suggest that the VRRS is a suitable alternative tool or complementary tool or both to improve motor (level of functional independence) and cognitive (frontal/executive abilities) outcomes, reducing behavioral alterations (anxiety and depression symptoms) in patients with SABI, with a beneficial impact also on the caregivers’ burden distress management, mitigating distress and promoting positive aspects of caring. ClinicalTrials.gov NCT03709875; https://classic.clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03709875