Patients with post-COVID/long-COVID symptoms need support, and health care professionals need to be able to provide evidence-based patient care. Digital interventions can meet these requirements, especially if personal contact is limited. We reviewed evidence-based digital interventions that are currently available to help manage physical and mental health in patients with post-COVID/long-COVID symptoms. A scoping review was carried out summarizing novel digital health interventions for treating post-COVID/long-COVID patients. Using the PICO (population, intervention, comparison, outcome) scheme, original studies were summarized, in which patients with post-COVID/long-COVID symptoms used digital interventions to help aid recovery. From all scanned articles, 8 original studies matched the inclusion criteria. Of the 8 studies, 3 were “pretest” studies, 3 described the implementation of a telerehabilitation program, 1 was a post-COVID/long-COVID program, and 1 described the results of qualitative interviews with patients who used an online peer-support group. Following the PICO scheme, we summarized previous studies. Studies varied in terms of participants (P), ranging from adults in different countries, such as former hospitalized patients with COVID-19, to individuals in disadvantaged communities in the United Kingdom, as well as health care workers. In addition, the studies included patients who had previously been infected with COVID-19 and who had ongoing symptoms. Some studies focused on individuals with specific symptoms, including those with either post–COVID-19 or long-term symptoms, while other studies included patients based on participation in online peer-support groups. The interventions (I) also varied. Most interventions used a combination of psychological and physical exercises, but they varied in duration, frequency, and social dimensions. The reviewed studies investigated the physical and mental health conditions of patients with post-COVID/long-COVID symptoms. Most studies had no control (C) group, and most studies reported outcomes (O) or improvements in physiological health perception, some physical conditions, fatigue, and some psychological aspects such as depression. However, some studies found no improvements in bowel or bladder problems, concentration, short-term memory, unpleasant dreams, physical ailments, perceived bodily pain, emotional ailments, and perceived mental health. More systematic research with larger sample sizes is required to overcome sampling bias and include health care professionals’ perspectives, as well as help patients mobilize support from health care professionals and social network partners. The evidence so far suggests that patients should be provided with digital interventions to manage symptoms and reintegrate into everyday life, including work.