jmir_23_P_563
Using traditional patient-reported outcomes (PROs), such as paper-based questionnaires, is cumbersome in the era of web-based medical consultation and telemedicine. Electronic PROs may reduce the burden on patients if implemented widely. Considering promising reports of DryEyeRhythm, our in-house mHealth smartphone app for investigating dry eye disease (DED) and the electronic and paper-based Ocular Surface Disease Index (OSDI) should be evaluated and compared to determine their equivalency. The purpose of this study is to assess the equivalence between smartphone app–based and paper-based questionnaires for DED. This prospective, nonblinded, randomized crossover study enrolled 34 participants between April 2022 and June 2022 at a university hospital in Japan. The participants were allocated randomly into 2 groups in a 1:1 ratio. The paper-app group initially responded to the paper-based Japanese version of the OSDI (J-OSDI), followed by the app-based J-OSDI. The app-paper group responded to similar questionnaires but in reverse order. We performed an equivalence test based on minimal clinically important differences to assess the equivalence of the J-OSDI total scores between the 2 platforms (paper-based vs app-based). A 95% CI of the mean difference between the J-OSDI total scores within the ±7.0 range between the 2 platforms indicated equivalence. The internal consistency and agreement of the app-based J-OSDI were assessed with Cronbach α coefficients and intraclass correlation coefficient values. A total of 33 participants were included in this study. The total scores for the app- and paper-based J-OSDI indicated satisfactory equivalence per our study definition (mean difference 1.8, 95% CI –1.4 to 5.0). Moreover, the app-based J-OSDI total score demonstrated good internal consistency and agreement (Cronbach α=.958; intraclass correlation=0.919; 95% CI 0.842 to 0.959) and was significantly correlated with its paper-based counterpart (Pearson correlation=0.932, P<.001). This study demonstrated the equivalence of PROs between the app- and paper-based J-OSDI. Implementing the app-based J-OSDI in various scenarios, including telehealth, may have implications for the early diagnosis of DED and longitudinal monitoring of PROs.
