jmir_23_P_358
Workers with flexible work designs (FWDs) face specific challenges, such as difficulties in detaching from work, setting boundaries between work and private life, and recovering from work. This study evaluated the effectiveness of an intervention in improving the recovery, work-life balance, and well-being of workers with FWDs compared with a waitlist control group. It also compares the effectiveness of a web-based training format and blended training format. In the web-based training format, participants individually completed 6 web-based modules and daily tasks over 6 weeks, learning self-regulation strategies to meet the particular challenges of FWDs. In the blended training format, participants attended 3 group sessions in addition to completing the 6 web-based modules. In a randomized controlled trial, participants were assigned to a web-based intervention group (196/575, 34.1%), blended intervention group (198/575, 34.4%), or waitlist control group (181/575, 31.5%). Study participants self-assessed their levels of primary outcomes (psychological detachment, satisfaction with work-life balance, and well-being) before the intervention, after the intervention, at a 4-week follow-up, and at a 6-month follow-up. The final sample included 373 participants (web-based intervention group: n=107, 28.7%; blended intervention group: n=129, 34.6%; and control group: n=137, 36.7%). Compliance was assessed as a secondary outcome. The results of multilevel analyses were in line with our hypothesis that both training formats would improve psychological detachment, satisfaction with work-life balance, and well-being. We expected blended training to reinforce these effects, but blended training participants did not profit more from the intervention than web-based training participants. However, they reported to have had more social exchange, and blended training participants were more likely to adhere to the training. Both web-based and blended training are effective tools for improving the recovery, work-life balance, and well-being of workers with FWDs. Group sessions can increase the likelihood of participants actively participating in web-based modules and exercises.
