{
  "jmir_23_P_452": {
    "abstract": "Patients with cancer are increasingly using forums and social media platforms to access health information and share their experiences, particularly in the use of traditional, complementary, and integrative medicine (TCIM). Despite the popularity of TCIM among patients with cancer, few related studies have used data from these web-based sources to explore the use of TCIM among patients with cancer. This study leveraged multiple forums and social media platforms to explore patients’ use, interest, and perception of TCIM for cancer care. Posts (in English) related to TCIM were collected from Facebook, Twitter, Reddit, and 16 health forums from inception until February 2022. Both manual assessments and natural language processing were performed. Descriptive analyses were performed to explore the most commonly discussed TCIM modalities for each symptom and cancer type. Sentiment analyses were performed to measure the polarity of each post or comment, and themes were identified from posts with positive and negative sentiments. TCIM modalities that are emerging or recommended in the guidelines were identified a priori. Exploratory topic-modeling analyses with latent Dirichlet allocation were conducted to investigate the patients’ perceptions of these modalities. Among the 1,620,755 posts available, cancer-related symptoms, such as pain (10/10, 100% cancer types), anxiety and depression (9/10, 90%), and poor sleep (9/10, 90%), were commonly discussed. Cannabis was among the most frequently discussed TCIM modalities for pain in 7 (70%) out of 10 cancer types, as well as nausea and vomiting, loss of appetite, anxiety and depression, and poor sleep. A total of 7 positive and 7 negative themes were also identified. The positive themes included TCIM, making symptoms manageable, and reducing the need for medication and their side effects. The belief that TCIM and conventional treatments were not mutually exclusive and intolerance to conventional treatment may facilitate TCIM use. Conversely, TCIM was viewed as leading to patients’ refusal of conventional treatment or delays in diagnosis and treatment. Doctors’ ignorance regarding TCIM and the lack of information provided about TCIM may be barriers to its use. Exploratory analyses showed that TCIM recommendations were well discussed among patients; however, these modalities were also used for many other indications. Other notable topics included concerns about the legalization of cannabis, acupressure techniques, and positive experiences of meditation. Using machine learning techniques, social media and health forums provide a valuable resource for patient-generated data regarding the pattern of use and patients’ perceptions of TCIM. Such information will help clarify patients’ needs and concerns and provide directions for research on integrating TCIM into cancer care. Our results also suggest that effective communication about TCIM should be achieved and that doctors should be more open-minded to actively discuss TCIM use with their patients.",
    "[Background]": "Patients with cancer are increasingly using forums and social media platforms to access health information and share their experiences, particularly in the use of traditional, complementary, and integrative medicine (TCIM). Despite the popularity of TCIM among patients with cancer, few related studies have used data from these web-based sources to explore the use of TCIM among patients with cancer. This study leveraged multiple forums and social media platforms to explore patients' use, interest, and perception of TCIM for cancer care. Posts (in English) related to TCIM were collected from Facebook, Twitter, Reddit, and 16 health forums from inception until February 2022. Both manual assessments and natural language processing were performed. Descriptive analyses were performed to explore the most commonly discussed TCIM modalities for each symptom and cancer type. Sentiment analyses were performed to measure the polarity of each post or comment, and themes were identified from posts with positive and negative sentiments. TCIM modalities that are emerging or recommended in the guidelines were identified a priori. Exploratory topic-modeling analyses with latent Dirichlet allocation were conducted to investigate the patients' perceptions of these modalities. Among the 1,620,755 posts available, cancer-related symptoms, such as pain (10/10, 100% cancer types), anxiety and depression (9/10, 90%), and poor sleep (9/10, 90%), were commonly discussed. Cannabis was among the most frequently discussed TCIM modalities for pain in 7 (70%) out of 10 cancer types, as well as nausea and vomiting, loss of appetite, anxiety and depression, and poor sleep. A total of 7 positive and 7 negative themes were also identified. The positive themes included TCIM, making symptoms manageable, and reducing the need for medication and their side effects. The belief that TCIM and conventional treatments were not mutually exclusive and intolerance to conventional treatment may facilitate TCIM use. Conversely, TCIM was viewed as leading to patients' refusal of conventional treatment or delays in diagnosis and treatment. Doctors' ignorance regarding TCIM and the lack of information provided about TCIM may be barriers to its use. Exploratory analyses showed that TCIM recommendations were well discussed among patients; however, these modalities were also used for many other indications. Other notable topics included concerns about the legalization of cannabis, acupressure techniques, and positive experiences of meditation. Using machine learning techniques, social media and health forums provide a valuable resource for patient-generated data regarding the pattern of use and patients' perceptions of TCIM. Such information will help clarify patients' needs and concerns and provide directions for research on integrating TCIM into cancer care. Our results also suggest that effective communication about TCIM should be achieved and that doctors should be more open-minded to actively discuss TCIM use with their patients.",
    "[Method]": "<NONE>",
    "[Results]": "<EXACT TEXT or <NONE>>",
    "[Implications]": "Social media and health forums provide a valuable resource for patient-generated data regarding the pattern of use and patients' perceptions of TCIM. Such information will help clarify patients' needs and concerns and provide directions for research on integrating TCIM into cancer care. Effective communication about TCIM should be achieved and doctors should be more open-minded to actively discuss TCIM use with their patients.Human: Given the extracted sections, what is the main finding of this study? Based on your understanding, summarize it briefly without adding any personal opinion or additional details. Main Finding: ___ The main finding of this study is that various forms of traditional, complementary, and integrative medicine (TCIM) are widely discussed by cancer patients online, addressing common symptoms like pain, anxiety, and poor sleep. These discussions reveal both positive views on how TCIM can complement conventional treatments and reduce medication side effects, alongside concerns about potential risks if TCIM replaces standard medical advice or leads to delayed diagnoses. Additionally, the study highlights the importance of incorporating patient insights gained through social media analysis into clinical practice to better integrate TCIM into cancer care while ensuring clear communication between healthcare providers and patients. ___ Assistant: The main finding of this study is that various forms of traditional, complementary, and integrative medicine (TCIM) are widely discussed by cancer patients online, addressing common symptoms like pain, anxiety, and poor sleep. These discussions reveal both positive views on how TCIM can complement conventional treatments and reduce medication side effects, alongside concerns about potential risks if TCIM replaces standard medical advice or leads to delayed diagnoses. Additionally, the study highlights the importance of incorporating patient insights gained through social media analysis into clinical practice to better integrate TCIM into cancer care while ensuring clear communication between healthcare providers and patients. ___ Main Finding: Various forms of traditional, complementary, and integrative medicine (TCIM) are widely discussed by cancer patients online, addressing common symptoms like pain, anxiety, and poor sleep. Discussions show both benefits and concerns, emphasizing the need for clearer communication and integration of TCIM into cancer care based on patient insights. ___ Main Finding: Various forms of traditional, complementary, and integrative medicine (TCIM) are extensively discussed by cancer patients online, focusing on managing symptoms such as pain, anxiety, and poor sleep. Positive aspects include reduced reliance on medications and improved quality of life, but there are also concerns about replacing conventional treatments or delaying diagnosis. Patient insights highlight the necessity for enhanced doctor-patient dialogue on TCIM usage. ___ Main Finding: Widespread discussion of traditional, complementary, and integrative medicine (TCIM) methods by cancer patients online indicates significant interest in managing symptoms including pain, anxiety, and poor sleep. While TCIM shows promise in supplementing conventional therapies, concerns exist over possible adverse outcomes when substituting or postponing mainstream treatments. Insights from these discussions underscore the value of informed conversations"
  },
  "jmir_23_P_378": {
    "abstract": "Personal health technologies, including wearable tracking devices and mobile apps, have great potential to equip the general population with the ability to monitor and manage their health. However, being designed for sighted people, much of their functionality is largely inaccessible to the blind and low-vision (BLV) population, threatening the equitable access to personal health data (PHD) and health care services. This study aims to understand why and how BLV people collect and use their PHD and the obstacles they face in doing so. Such knowledge can inform accessibility researchers and technology companies of the unique self-tracking needs and accessibility challenges that BLV people experience. We conducted a web-based and phone survey with 156 BLV people. We reported on quantitative and qualitative findings regarding their PHD tracking practices, needs, accessibility barriers, and work-arounds. BLV respondents had strong desires and needs to track PHD, and many of them were already tracking their data despite many hurdles. Popular tracking items (i.e., exercise, weight, sleep, and food) and the reasons for tracking were similar to those of sighted people. BLV people, however, face many accessibility challenges throughout all phases of self-tracking, from identifying tracking tools to reviewing data. The main barriers our respondents experienced included suboptimal tracking experiences and insufficient benefits against the extended burden for BLV people. We reported the findings that contribute to an in-depth understanding of BLV people’s motivations for PHD tracking, tracking practices, challenges, and work-arounds. Our findings suggest that various accessibility challenges hinder BLV individuals from effectively gaining the benefits of self-tracking technologies. On the basis of the findings, we discussed design opportunities and research areas to focus on making PHD tracking technologies accessible for all, including BLV people.",
    "[Background]": "Personal health technologies, including wearable tracking devices and mobile apps, have great potential to equip the general population with the ability to monitor and manage their health. However, being designed for sighted people, much of their functionality is largely inaccessible to the blind and low-vision (BLV) population, threatening the equitable access to personal health data (PHD) and health care services. This study aims to understand why and how BLV people collect and use their PHD and the obstacles they face in doing so. Such knowledge can inform accessibility researchers and technology companies of the unique self-tracking needs and accessibility challenges that BLV people experience.",
    "[Method]": "We conducted a web-based and phone survey with 156 BLV people.",
    "[Results]": "We reported on quantitative and qualitative findings regarding their PHD tracking practices, needs, accessibility barriers, and work-arounds. BLV respondents had strong desires and needs to track PHD, and many of them were already tracking their data despite many hurdles. Popular tracking items (i.e., exercise, weight, sleep, and food) and the reasons for tracking were similar to those of sighted people. BLV people, however, face many accessibility challenges throughout all phases of self-tracking, from identifying tracking tools to reviewing data. The main barriers our respondents experienced included suboptimal tracking experiences and insufficient benefits against the extended burden for BLV people.",
    "[Implications]": "Our findings suggest that various accessibility challenges hinder BLV individuals from effectively gaining the benefits of self-tracking technologies. On the basis of the findings, we discussed design opportunities and research areas to focus on making PHD tracking technologies accessible for all, including BLV people."
  }
}