The recent advent of deep learning-based pose detection methods that can reliably detect human body/limb positions from video frames, together with the online availability of massive digital video corpora, gives digital humanities researchers the ability to conduct "distant viewing" analyses of movement and particularly full-body choreography at much larger scales than previously feasible. These developments make possible innovative, revelatory digital cultural analytics work across many sources, from historical footage to contemporary images. They are also ideally suited to provide novel insight to the study of K-pop choreography. As a specifically non-textual modality, K-pop dance performances, particularly those of corporate and government-sponsored "idol" groups, are a key component of K-pop’s core mission of projecting "soft power" into the international sphere. A related consequence of this strategy is the ready availability in online video repositories of many K-pop music videos, starting from the milieu's origins in the 1990s, including an ever-growing collection of official "dance practice" videos and fan-contributed dance cover videos and supercuts from live performances⁠. These latter videos are a direct consequence of the online propagation of the "Korean wave" by generations of tech-savvy fans on social media platforms. In this paper, we describe the considerations and choices made in the process of applying deep learning-based posed detection to a large corpus of K-pop music videos, and present the analytical methods we developed while focusing on a smaller subset of dance practice videos. A guiding principle for these efforts was to adopt techniques for characterizing, categorizing and comparing poses within and between videos, and for analyzing various qualities of motion as time-series data, that would be applicable to many kinds of movement choreography, rather than specific to K-pop dance. We conclude with case studies demonstrating how our methods contribute to the development of a typography of K-pop poses and sequences of poses ("moves") that can facilitate a data-driven study of the constitutive interdependence of K-pop and other cultural genres. We also show how this work advances methods for "distant" analyses of dance performances and larger corpora, considering such criteria as repetitiveness and degree of synchronization, as well as more idiosyncratic measures such as the "tightness" of a group performance.