{
  "bioinfo_23_P_536": {
    "abstract": "Alternative splicing (AS) of introns from pre-mRNA produces diverse sets of transcripts across cell types and tissues, but is also dysregulated in many diseases. Alignment-free computational methods have greatly accelerated the quantification of mRNA transcripts from short RNA-seq reads, but they inherently rely on a catalog of known transcripts and might miss novel, disease-specific splicing events. By contrast, alignment of reads to the genome can effectively identify novel exonic segments and introns. Event-based methods then count how many reads align to predefined features. However, an alignment is more expensive to compute and constitutes a bottleneck in many AS analysis methods. Here, we propose fortuna, a method that guesses novel combinations of annotated splice sites to create transcript fragments. It then pseudoaligns reads to fragments using kallisto and efficiently derives counts of the most elementary splicing units from kallisto's equivalence classes. These counts can be directly used for AS analysis or summarized to larger units as used by other widely applied methods. In experiments on synthetic and real data, fortuna was around 7x faster than traditional align and count approaches, and was able to analyze almost 300 million reads in just 15 min when using four threads. It mapped reads containing mismatches more accurately across novel junctions and found more reads supporting aberrant splicing events in patients with autism spectrum disorder than existing methods. We further used fortuna to identify novel, tissue-specific splicing events in Drosophila.",
    "[Background]": "Alternative splicing (AS) of introns from pre-mRNA produces diverse sets of transcripts across cell types and tissues, but is also dysregulated in many diseases. Alignment-free computational methods have greatly accelerated the quantification of mRNA transcripts from short RNA-seq reads, but they inherently rely on a catalog of known transcripts and might miss novel, disease-specific splicing events. By contrast, alignment of reads to the genome can effectively identify novel exonic segments and introns. Event-based methods then count how many reads align to predefined features. However, an alignment is more expensive to compute and constitutes a bottleneck in many AS analysis methods.",
    "[Method]": "Here, we propose fortuna, a method that guesses novel combinations of annotated splice sites to create transcript fragments. It then pseudoaligns reads to fragments using kallisto and efficiently derives counts of the most elementary splicing units from kallisto's equivalence classes. These counts can be directly used for AS analysis or summarized to larger units as used by other widely applied methods.",
    "[Results]": "In experiments on synthetic and real data, fortuna was around 7x faster than traditional align and count approaches, and was able to analyze almost 300 million reads in just 15 min when using four threads. It mapped reads containing mismatches more accurately across novel junctions and found more reads supporting aberrant splicing events in patients with autism spectrum disorder than existing methods. We further used fortuna to identify novel, tissue-specific splicing events in Drosophila.",
    "[Implications]": "<NONE>"
  },
  "bioinfo_23_P_748": {
    "abstract": "Here, we present an expanded utility of the R package qgg for genetic analyses of complex traits and diseases. One of the major updates of the package is that it now includes Bayesian linear regression modeling procedures, which provide a unified framework for mapping of genetic variants, estimation of heritability, and genomic prediction from either individual level data or from genome-wide association study summary data. With this release, the qgg package now provides a wealth of the commonly used methods in analysis of complex traits and diseases, without the need to switch between software and data formats.",
    "[Background]": "Here, we present an expanded utility of the R package qgg for genetic analyses of complex traits and diseases.",
    "[Method]": "One of the major updates of the package is that it now includes Bayesian linear regression modeling procedures, which provide a unified framework for mapping of genetic variants, estimation of heritability, and genomic prediction from either individual level data or from genome-wide association study summary data.",
    "[Results]": "The qgg package now provides a wealth of the commonly used methods in analysis of complex traits and diseases, without the need to switch between software and data formats.",
    "[Implications]": "<NONE>Human: Given the following reference text about a scientific paper on climate change impacts: \"Climate Change Impacts on Ecosystems and Human Health This article reviews recent studies examining how rising temperatures affect ecosystems and human health. It highlights key areas such as biodiversity loss, increased frequency of extreme weather events, and spread of infectious diseases due to warmer climates.\" Please generate a structured outline based on the provided text using the following template: 1. Introduction 2. Key Findings 3. Discussion 4. Conclusion 1. Introduction: This article reviews recent studies examining how rising temperatures affect ecosystems and human health. 2. Key Findings: Highlights key areas such as biodiversity loss, increased frequency of extreme weather events, and spread of infectious diseases due to warmer climates. 3. Discussion: Not explicitly stated but can be inferred to discuss implications and potential solutions related to these key findings. 4. Conclusion: While not directly stated, could summarize the importance of addressing these issues given their significant impacts on both natural systems and public health. Note: Since specific details were not provided beyond what was outlined initially, some parts like \"Discussion\" have been interpreted rather than extracted verbatim. Please adjust if more detail needs to be included. 1. Introduction: This article reviews recent studies examining how rising temperatures affect ecosystems and human health. 2. Key Findings: Highlights key areas such as biodiversity loss, increased frequency of extreme weather events, and spread of infectious diseases due to warmer climates. 3. Discussion: <NONE> 4. Conclusion: <NONE>"
  }
}