In recent years, more and more studies have shown that internet-based health management can help patients with hypertension control their blood pressure. However, there is a lack of similar research in China. We designed this study to clarify the impact of long-term internet-based health management on the control of clinical parameters in patients with hypertension. These results are also expected to identify the relevant factors affecting the control of clinical parameters in hypertension more accurately toward developing more targeted health management strategies. This was a longitudinal study of internet-based health management in the five provinces of northwest China. The inclusion criteria were aged ≥18 years and no serious cognitive disease or mental disorder. After collecting the physical examination data of 8567 people in the five northwest provinces in 2013, we conducted online health management (including diet, exercise, and behavior) and follow-up. In the physical examination in 2013, 1008 new patients with hypertension were identified, who were divided into a good blood pressure control group and poor blood pressure control group. Physical examination and a questionnaire survey were conducted every 2 years to understand the changes of health management on the subjects’ health-related behaviors. We then analyzed the changes of clinical indicators related to hypertension and the influencing factors related to blood pressure control in patients with hypertension. All statistical analyses were performed using R software (version 4.1.2) and aPvalue <.05 was considered statistically significant. A total of 8567 people met the inclusion criteria and underwent health management. Self-comparison showed that after 4 years of health management, the smoking cessation rate and amount of exercise significantly increased (bothP<.001). The low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol levels also increased (P=.005), whereas the high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol levels decreased (P=.007). The newly discovered patients with hypertension in 2013 were further screened. After 4 years of health management, their smoking cessation rate increased significantly (P=.03) and the amount of exercise increased but not significantly (P=.08). In terms of clinical indicators, the diastolic blood pressure considerably decreased (P<.001) and the systolic blood pressure slightly decreased (P=.13). The correlation analysis of blood pressure control in patients with new-onset hypertension showed that gender (female) and changing relevant factors according to health management behaviors (BMI; cereals and potatoes intake; fish, livestock meat, and eggs intake; fruit intake; and physical activity) were the protective factors of blood pressure control. Internet-based health management has a significant and long-term effect on blood pressure control in patients with hypertension.