Hypertriglyceridemia is a risk factor for cardiovascular diseases. Internet usage in China is increasing, giving rise to large-scale data sources, especially to access, disseminate, and discuss medical information. Social media listening (SML) is a new approach to analyze and monitor online discussions related to various health-related topics in diverse diseases, which can generate insights into users’ experiences and expectations. However, to date, no studies have evaluated the utility of SML to understand patients’ cognizance and expectations pertaining to the management of hypertriglyceridemia. The aim of this study was to utilize SML to explore the disease cognition level of patients with hypertriglyceridemia, choice of intervention measures, and the status quo of online consultations and question-and-answer (Q&A) search platforms. An infosurveillance study was conducted wherein a disease-specific comprehensive search was performed between 2004 and 2020 in Q&A search and online consultation platforms. Predefined single and combined keywords related to hypertriglyceridemia were used in the search, including disease, symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment indicators; lifestyle interventions; and therapeutic agents. The search output was aggregated using an aggregator tool and evaluated. Disease-specific consultation data (n=69,845) and corresponding response data (n=111,763) were analyzed from 20 data sources (6 Q&A search platforms and 14 online consultation platforms). Doctors from inland areas had relatively high voice volumes and appear to exert a substantial influence on these platforms. Patients with hypertriglyceridemia engaging on the internet have an average level of cognition about the disease and its intervention measures. However, a strong demand for the concept of the disease and “how to treat it” was observed. More emphasis on the persistence of the disease and the safety of medications was observed. Young patients have a lower willingness for drug interventions, whereas patients with severe hypertriglyceridemia have a clearer intention to use drug intervention and few patients have a strong willingness for the use of traditional Chinese medicine. Findings from this disease-specific SML study revealed that patients with hypertriglyceridemia in China actively seek information from both online Q&A search and consultation platforms. However, the integrity of internet doctors’ suggestions on lifestyle interventions and the accuracy of drug intervention recommendations still need to be improved. Further, a combined prospective qualitative study with SML is required for added rigor and confirmation of the relevance of the findings.