Retaining participants in clinical trials is an established challenge. Currently, the industry is moving to a technology-mediated, decentralized model for running trials. The shift presents an opportunity for technology design to aid the participant experience and promote retention; however, there are many open questions regarding how this can be best supported. We advocate the adoption of a stronger theoretical position to improve the quality of design decisions for clinical trial technology to promote participant engagement. This study aimed to identify and analyze the types of retention strategies used in published clinical trials that successfully retain participants. A systematic scoping review was carried out on 6 electronic databases for articles published from 1990 to September 2020, namely CINAHL, The Cochrane Library, EBSCO, Embase, PsycINFO, and PubMed, using the concepts “retention,” “strategy,” “clinal trial,” and “clinical research.” This was followed by an analysis of the included articles through the lens of self-determination theory, an evidence-based theory of human motivation. A total of 26 articles were included in this review. The motivational strategies identified in the clinical trials in our sample were categorized into 8 themes: autonomy; competence; relatedness; controlled motivation; branding, communication material, and marketing literature; contact, tracking, and scheduling methods and data collection; convenience to contribute to data collection; and organizational competence. The trials used a wide range of motivational strategies. Notably, the trials often relied on controlled motivation interventions and underused strategies to support intrinsic motivation. Moreover, traditional clinical trials relied heavily on human interaction and “relatedness” to support motivation and retention, which may cause problems in the move to technology-led decentralized trials. We found inconsistency in the data-reporting methods and that motivational theory–based approaches were not evident in strategy design. This study offers direction and a framework to guide digital technology design decisions for future decentralized clinical trials to enhance participant retention during clinical trials. This research defines previous clinical trial retention strategies in terms of participant motivation, identifies motivational strategies, and offers a rationale for selecting strategies that will improve retention. It emphasizes the benefits of using theoretical frameworks to analyze strategic approaches and aid decision-making to improve the quality of technology design decisions.