The availability of central nervous system stimulants has risen in recent years, along with increased dispensing of stimulants for treatment of, for example, parent-reported attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder in children and new diagnoses during adulthood. Typologies of drug use, as has been done with opioids, fail to include a sufficient range of behavioral factors to contextualize person-centric circumstances surrounding drug use. Understanding these patterns across drug classes would bring public health and regulatory practices toward precision public health. The objective of this study was to quantitatively delineate the unique behavioral profiles of adults who currently nonmedically use stimulants and opioids using a latent class analysis and to contrast the differences in findings by class. We further evaluated whether the subgroups identified were associated with an increased Drug Abuse Screening Test-10 (DAST-10) score, which is an indicator of average problematic drug use. This study used a national cross-sectional web-based survey, using 3 survey launches from 2019 to 2020 (before the COVID-19 pandemic). Data from adults who reported nonmedical use of prescription stimulants (n=2083) or prescription opioids (n=6127) in the last 12 months were analyzed. A weighted latent class analysis was used to identify the patterns of use. Drug types, motivations, and behaviors were factors in the model, which characterized unique classes of behavior. Five stimulant nonmedical use classes were identified: amphetamine self-medication, network-sourced stimulant for alertness, nonamphetamine performance use, recreational use, and nondiscriminatory behaviors. The drug used nonmedically, acquisition through a friend or family member, and use to get high were strong differentiators among the stimulant classes. The latter 4 classes had significantly higher DAST-10 scores than amphetamine self-medication (P<.001). In addition, 4 opioid nonmedical use classes were identified: moderate pain with low mental health burden, high pain with higher mental health burden, risky behaviors with diverse motivations, and nondiscriminatory behaviors. There was a progressive and significant increase in DAST-10 scores across classes (P<.001). The potency of the opioid, pain history, the routes of administration, and psychoactive effect behaviors were strong differentiators among the opioid classes. A more precise understanding of how behaviors tend to co-occur would improve efficacy and efficiency in developing interventions and supporting the overall health of those who use drugs, and it would improve communication with, and connection to, those at risk for severe drug outcomes.