Obesity is a public health issue worldwide. Conversational agents (CAs), also frequently called chatbots, are computer programs that simulate dialogue between people. Owing to better accessibility, cost-effectiveness, personalization, and compassionate patient-centered treatments, CAs are expected to have the potential to provide sustainable lifestyle counseling for weight management. This systematic review aimed to critically summarize and evaluate clinical studies on the effectiveness and feasibility of CAs with unconstrained natural language input for weight management. PubMed, Embase, the Cochrane Library (CENTRAL), PsycINFO, and ACM Digital Library were searched up to December 2022. Studies were included if CAs were used for weight management and had a capability for unconstrained natural language input. No restrictions were imposed on study design, language, or publication type. The quality of the included studies was assessed using the Cochrane risk-of-bias assessment tool or the Critical Appraisal Skills Programme checklist. The extracted data from the included studies were tabulated and narratively summarized as substantial heterogeneity was expected. In total, 8 studies met the eligibility criteria: 3 (38%) randomized controlled trials and 5 (62%) uncontrolled before-and-after studies. The CAs in the included studies were aimed at behavior changes through education, advice on food choices, or counseling via psychological approaches. Of the included studies, only 38% (3/8) reported a substantial weight loss outcome (1.3-2.4 kg decrease at 12-15 weeks of CA use). The overall quality of the included studies was judged as low. The findings of this systematic review suggest that CAs with unconstrained natural language input can be used as a feasible interpersonal weight management intervention by promoting engagement in psychiatric intervention-based conversations simulating treatments by health care professionals, but currently there is a paucity of evidence. Well-designed rigorous randomized controlled trials with larger sample sizes, longer treatment duration, and follow-up focusing on CAs’ acceptability, efficacy, and safety are warranted.