Health information is a critical resource for individuals with health concerns and conditions, such as hypertension. Enhancing health information behaviors may help individuals to better manage chronic illness. The Modes of Health Information Acquisition, Sharing, and Use (MHIASU) is a 23-item questionnaire that measures how individuals with health risks or chronic illness acquire, share, and use health information. Yet this measure has not been psychometrically evaluated in a large national sample. The objective of this study was to evaluate the psychometric properties of the self-administered MHIASU in a large, diverse cohort of individuals living with a chronic illness. Sharing Information, a prospective, observational study, was launched in August 2018 and used social media campaigns to advertise to Black women. Individuals who were interested in participating clicked on the advertisements and were redirected to a Qualtrics eligibility screener. To meet eligibility criteria individuals had to self-identify as a Black woman, be diagnosed with hypertension by a health care provider, and live in the United States. A total of 320 Black women with hypertension successfully completed the eligibility screener and then completed a web-based version of the MHIASU questionnaire. We conducted a psychometric evaluation of the MHIASU using exploratory factor analysis. The evaluation included item review, construct validity, and reliability. Construct validity was established using exploratory factor analysis with principal axis factoring. The analysis was constricted to the expected domains. Interitem correlations were examined for possible item extraction. There were no improvements in factor structure with the removal of items with high interitem correlation (n=3), so all items of the MHIASU were retained. As anticipated, the instrument was found to have 3 subscales: acquisition, sharing, and use. Reliability was high for all 3 subscales, as evidenced by Cronbach α scores of .81 (acquisition), .81 (sharing), and .93 (use). Factor 3 (use of health information) explained the maximum variance (74%). Construct validity and reliability of the web-based, self-administered MHIASU was demonstrated in a large national cohort of Black women with hypertension. Although this sample was highly educated and may have had higher digital literacy compared to other samples not recruited via social media, the population captured (Black women living with hypertension) are often underrepresented in research and are particularly vulnerable to this chronic condition. Future studies can use the MHIASU to examine health information behavior in other diverse populations managing health concerns and conditions.