While questionnaires for assessing digital literacy exist, there is still a need for an easy-to-use and implementable questionnaire for assessing digital readiness in a broader sense. Additionally, learnability should be assessed to identify those patients who need additional training to use digital tools in a health care setting. The aim of the development of the Digital Health Readiness Questionnaire (DHRQ) was to create a short, usable, and freely accessible questionnaire that was designed from a clinical practice perspective. It was a prospective single-center survey study conducted in Jessa Hospital Hasselt in Belgium. The questionnaire was developed with a panel of field experts with questions in following 5 categories: digital usage, digital skills, digital literacy, digital health literacy, and digital learnability. All participants who were visiting the cardiology department as patients between February 1, 2022, and June 1, 2022, were eligible for participation. Cronbachαand confirmatory factor analysis were performed. A total number of 315 participants were included in this survey study, of which 118 (37.5%) were female. The mean age of the participants was 62.6 (SD 15.1) years. Cronbachαanalysis yielded a score of >.7 in all domains of the DHRQ, which indicates acceptable internal consistency. The fit indices of the confirmatory factor analysis showed a reasonably good fit: standardized root-mean-square residual=0.065, root-mean-square error of approximation=0.098 (95% CI 0.09-0.106), Tucker-Lewis fit index=0.895, and comparative fit index=0.912. The DHRQ was developed as an easy-to-use, short questionnaire to assess the digital readiness of patients in a routine clinical setting. Initial validation demonstrates good internal consistency, and future research will be needed to externally validate the questionnaire. The DHRQ has the potential to be implemented as a useful tool to gain insight into the patients who are treated in a care pathway, tailor digital care pathways to different patient populations, and offer those with low digital readiness but high learnability appropriate education programs in order to let them take part in the digital pathways.