The COVID-19 pandemic can be recognized as a traumatic event that led to stressors, resulting in trauma or distress among the general population. Social support is vital in the management of these stressors, especially during a traumatic event, such as the COVID-19 pandemic. Because of the limited face-to-face interactions enforced by physical distancing regulations during the pandemic, people sought solace on social media platforms to connect with, and receive support from, one another. Hence, it is crucial to investigate the ways in which people seek and offer support on social media for mental health management. The research aimed to examine the types of social support (eg, emotional, informational, instrumental, and appraisal) sought and provided for trauma or distress on Twitter during the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, this study aimed to gain insight into the difficulties and concerns of people during the pandemic by identifying the associations between terms representing the topics of interest related to trauma or distress and their corresponding sentiments. The study methods included content analysis to investigate the type of social support people sought for trauma or distress during the pandemic. Sentiment analysis was also performed to track the negative and positive sentiment tweets posted between January 1, 2020, and March 15, 2021. Association rule mining was used to uncover associations between terms and sentiments in tweets. In addition, the research used Kruskal-Wallis and Mann-WhitneyUtests to determine whether the retweet count and like count varied based on the social support type. Most Twitter users who indicated trauma or distress sought emotional support. Regarding sentiment, Twitter users mostly posted negative sentiment tweets, particularly in January 2021. An intriguing observation was that wearing masks could trigger and exacerbate trauma or distress. The results revealed that people mostly sought and provided emotional support on Twitter regarding difficulties with wearing masks, mental health status, financial hardships, and treatment methods for trauma or distress. In addition, tweets regarding emotional support received the most endorsements from other users, highlighting the critical role of social support in fostering a sense of community and reducing the feelings of isolation during the pandemic. This study demonstrates the potential of social media as a platform to exchange social support during challenging times and to identify the specific concerns (eg, wearing masks and exacerbated symptoms) of individuals with self-reported trauma or distress. The findings provide insights into the types of support that were most beneficial for those struggling with trauma or distress during the pandemic and may inform policy makers and health organizations regarding better practices for pandemic response and special considerations for groups with a history of trauma or distress.