Chronic heart failure (HF) is a chronic disease affecting more than 64 million people worldwide, with an increasing prevalence and a high burden on individual patients and society. Telemonitoring may be able to mitigate some of this burden by increasing self-management and preventing use of the health care system. However, it is unknown to what degree telemonitoring has been adopted by hospitals and if the use of telemonitoring is associated with certain patient characteristics. Insight into the dissemination of this technology among hospitals and patients may inform strategies for further adoption. We aimed to explore the use of telemonitoring among hospitals in the Netherlands and to identify patient characteristics associated with the use of telemonitoring for HF. We performed a retrospective cohort study based on routinely collected health care claim data in the Netherlands. Descriptive analyses were used to gain insight in the adoption of telemonitoring for HF among hospitals in 2019. We used logistic multiple regression analyses to explore the associations between patient characteristics and telemonitoring use. Less than half (31/84, 37%) of all included hospitals had claims for telemonitoring, and 20% (17/84) of hospitals had more than 10 patients with telemonitoring claims. Within these 17 hospitals, a total of 7040 patients were treated for HF in 2019, of whom 5.8% (409/7040) incurred a telemonitoring claim. Odds ratios (ORs) for using telemonitoring were higher for male patients (adjusted OR 1.90, 95% CI 1.50-2.41) and patients with previous hospital treatment for HF (adjusted OR 1.76, 95% CI 1.39-2.24). ORs were lower for higher age categories and were lowest for the highest age category, that is, patients older than 80 years (OR 0.30, 95% CI 0.21-0.44) compared to the reference age category (18-59 years). Socioeconomic status, degree of multimorbidity, and excessive polypharmacy were not associated with the use of telemonitoring. The use of reimbursed telemonitoring for HF was limited up to 2019, and our results suggest that large variation exists among hospitals. A lack of adoption is therefore not only due to a lack of diffusion among hospitals but also due to a lack of scaling up within hospitals that already deploy telemonitoring. Future studies should therefore focus on both kinds of adoption and how to facilitate these processes. Older patients, female patients, and patients with no previous hospital treatment for HF were less likely to use telemonitoring for HF. This shows that some patient groups are not served as much by telemonitoring as other patient groups. The underlying mechanism of the reported associations should be identified in order to gain a deeper understanding of telemonitoring use among different patient groups.