Designing the home environment can promote well-being. Social networks provide learning opportunities to improve health. This study aimed to develop and evaluate a Facebook intervention called Design for Wellness (DWELL). The program was created to improve knowledge, engagement, and self-efficacy in the creation of healthy home environments. A randomized controlled trial was conducted to assess the effects of the intervention program DWELL. Content was uploaded to the Facebook group and gave the participants practical solutions for how to design their home environment for wellness. The intervention addressed multiple components of health behaviors, such as healthy eating, physical activity, tobacco-free environment, hygiene, family conversations regarding wellness issues, and stress reduction. The main outcome was the participants’ overall score on the DWELL index, which we developed to assess the elements of our intervention: knowledge, awareness, engagement, and self-efficacy regarding home design for wellness. The intervention was conducted in Israel and lasted 6 weeks during the third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. The primary analysis included a multivariable model to assess the DWELL score at the end of the study while controlling for baseline characteristics. The waitlist control group did not receive an intervention between the 2 administrations of the questionnaire. In total, 643 participants began the program: 322 (50.1%) in the intervention group and 321 (49.9%) in the control group. Of the 643 participants, 476 (74%) completed the study. At the end of the study, there was a statistically significant benefit of the intervention as assessed using a one-way analysis of covariance: there was a mean difference of 8.631 (SD 1.408) points in the DWELL score in favor of the intervention group (intervention: mean 61.92, SD 14.30; control: mean 53.29, SD 16.374;P<.001). Qualitative feedback from participants in the intervention group strengthened the positive results as most of them found the group beneficial. The Facebook group was very active. Being more engaged in the group correlated with having a higher DWELL score, but this relationship was weak (r=0.37;P<.001). The mean significant difference of 26.281 (SD 19.24) points between the overall DWELL score and the overall engagement score indicated that participants who were not active in the group still followed the posts and benefited. We found no improvements in the secondary outcome regarding participants’ well-being. The COVID-19 lockdown may have prevented this. DWELL was found to be a beneficial intervention for improving perceptions of the design of home environments to foster wellness. Facebook was an effective platform to deliver this intervention. DWELL may become a prototype for other health promotion interventions. ClinicalTrials.gov NCT03736525; https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03736525?term=DWELL&rank=1