Digital technologies may improve sexual and reproductive health (SRH) across diverse settings. Chatbots are computer programs designed to simulate human conversation, and there is a growing interest in the potential for chatbots to provide responsive and accurate information, counseling, linkages to products and services, or a companion on an SRH journey. This review aimed to identify assumptions about the value of chatbots for SRH and collate the evidence to support them. We used a realist approach that starts with an initial program theory and generates causal explanations in the form of context, mechanism, and outcome configurations to test and develop that theory. We generated our program theory, drawing on the expertise of the research team, and then searched the literature to add depth and develop this theory with evidence. The evidence supports our program theory, which suggests that chatbots are a promising intervention for SRH information and service delivery. This is because chatbots offer anonymous and nonjudgmental interactions that encourage disclosure of personal information, provide complex information in a responsive and conversational tone that increases understanding, link to SRH conversations within web-based and offline social networks, provide immediate support or service provision 24/7 by automating some tasks, and provide the potential to develop long-term relationships with users who return over time. However, chatbots may be less valuable where people find any conversation about SRH (even with a chatbot) stigmatizing, for those who lack confidential access to digital devices, where conversations do not feel natural, and where chatbots are developed as stand-alone interventions without reference to service contexts. Chatbots in SRH could be developed further to automate simple tasks and support service delivery. They should prioritize achieving an authentic conversational tone, which could be developed to facilitate content sharing in social networks, should support long-term relationship building with their users, and should be integrated into wider service networks.