The global COVID-19 pandemic has been widely regarded as a catalyst for adopting internet health care technology (IHT) in China. IHT consists of new health care technologies that are shaping health services and medical consultations. Health care professionals play a substantial role in the adoption of any IHT, but the consequences of doing so can often be challenging, particularly when employee burnout is prevalent. Few studies have explored whether employee burnout influences the adoption intention of IHT in health care professionals. This study aims to explain the determinants influencing the adoption of IHT from the perspective of health care professionals. To do so, the study extends the value-based adoption model (VAM) with consideration for employee burnout as a determining factor. A cross-sectional web-based survey using a sample of 12,031 health care professionals selected through multistage cluster sampling from 3 provinces in mainland China was conducted. The hypotheses of our research model were developed based on the VAM and employee burnout theory. Structural equation modeling was then used to test the research hypotheses. The results indicate that perceived usefulness, perceived enjoyment, and perceived complexity positively correlate with perceived value (β=.131, P=.01; β=.638, P<.001; β=.198, P<.001, respectively). Perceived value had a positive direct effect on adoption intention (β=.725, P<.001), perceived risk negatively correlated with perceived value (β=−.083, P<.001), and perceived value negatively correlated with employee burnout (β=−.308, P<.001). In addition, employee burnout was negatively related to adoption intention (β=−.170, P<.001) and mediated the relationship between perceived value and adoption intention (β=.052, P<.001). Perceived value, perceived enjoyment, and employee burnout were the most important determinants of IHT adoption intention by health care professionals. In addition, while employee burnout was negatively related to adoption intention, perceived value inhibited employee burnout. Therefore, this study finds that it is necessary to develop strategies to improve the perceived value and reduce employee burnout, which will benefit the promotion of the adoption intention of IHT in health care professionals. This study supports the use of the VAM and employee burnout in explaining health care professionals’ adoption intention regarding IHT.