Health recommender systems (HRSs) are information retrieval systems that provide users with relevant items according to the users’ needs, which can motivate and engage users to change their behavior. This study aimed to identify the development and evaluation of HRSs and create an evidence map. A total of 6 databases were searched to identify HRSs reported in studies from inception up to June 30, 2022, followed by forward citation and grey literature searches. Titles, abstracts, and full texts were screened independently by 2 reviewers, with discrepancies resolved by a third reviewer, when necessary. Data extraction was performed by one reviewer and checked by a second reviewer. This review was conducted in accordance with the PRISMA-ScR (Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for Scoping Reviews) statement. A total of 51 studies were included for data extraction. Recommender systems were used across different health domains, such as general health promotion, lifestyle, and generic health service. A total of 23 studies had reported the use of a combination of recommender techniques, classified as hybrid recommender systems, which are the most commonly used recommender techniques in HRSs. In the HRS design stage, only 10 of 51 (19.6%) recommender systems considered personal preferences of end users in the design or development of the system; a total of 29 studies reported the user interface of HRSs, and most HRSs worked on users’ mobile interfaces, usually a mobile app. Two categories of HRS evaluations were used, and evaluations of HRSs varied greatly; 62.7% (32/51) of the studies used the offline evaluations using computational methods (no user), and 33.3% (17/51) of the studies included end users in their HRS evaluation. Through this scoping review, nonmedical professionals and policy makers can visualize and better understand HRSs for future studies. The health care professionals and the end users should be encouraged to participate in the future design and development of HRSs to optimize their utility and successful implementation. Detailed evaluations of HRSs in a user-centered approach are needed in future studies.