Mobile health (mHealth) technology holds great promise as an easily accessible and effective solution to improve population health at scale. Despite the abundance of mHealth offerings, only a minority are grounded in evidence-based practice, whereas even fewer have line of sight into population-level health care spending, limiting the clinical utility of such tools. This study aimed to explore the influence of a health plan–sponsored, wearable-based, and reward-driven digital health intervention (DHI) on health care spending over 1 year. The DHI was delivered through a smartphone-based mHealth app available only to members of a large commercial health plan and leveraged a combination of behavioral economics, user-generated sensor data from the connected wearable device, and claims history to create personalized, evidence-based recommendations for each user. This study deployed a propensity score–matched, 2-group, and pre-post observational design. Adults (≥18 years of age) enrolled in a large, national commercial health plan and self-enlisted in the DHI for ≥7 months were allocated to the intervention group (n=56,816). Members who were eligible for the DHI but did not enlist were propensity score–matched to the comparison group (n=56,816). Average (and relative change from baseline) medical and pharmacy spending per user per month was computed for each member of the intervention and comparison groups during the pre- (ie, 12 months) and postenlistment (ie, 7-12 months) periods using claims data. Baseline characteristics and medical spending were similar between groups (P=.89). On average, the total included sample population (N=113,632) consisted of young to middle-age (mean age 38.81 years), mostly White (n=55,562, 48.90%), male (n=46,731, 41.12%) and female (n=66,482, 58.51%) participants. Compared to a propensity score–matched cohort, DHI users demonstrated approximately US $10 per user per month lower average medical spending (P=.02) with a concomitant increase in preventive care activities and decrease in nonemergent emergency department admissions. These savings translated to approximately US $6.8 million in avoidable health care costs over the course of 1 year. This employer-sponsored, digital health engagement program has a high likelihood for return on investment within 1 year owing to clinically meaningful changes in health-seeking behaviors and downstream medical cost savings. Future research should aim to elucidate health behavior–related mechanisms in support of these findings and continue to explore novel strategies to ensure equitable access of DHIs to underserved populations that stand to benefit the most.