The health care industry has faced various challenges over the past decade as we move toward a digital future where services and data are available on demand. The systems of interconnected devices, users, data, and working environments are referred to as the Internet of Health Care Things (IoHT). IoHT devices have emerged in the past decade as cost-effective solutions with large scalability capabilities to address the constraints on limited resources. These devices cater to the need for remote health care services outside of physical interactions. However, IoHT security is often overlooked because the devices are quickly deployed and configured as solutions to meet the demands of a heavily saturated industry. During the COVID-19 pandemic, studies have shown that cybercriminals are exploiting the health care industry, and data breaches are targeting user credentials through authentication vulnerabilities. Poor password use and management and the lack of multifactor authentication security posture within IoHT cause a loss of millions according to the IBM reports. Therefore, it is important that health care authentication security moves toward adaptive multifactor authentication (AMFA) to replace the traditional approaches to authentication. We identified a lack of taxonomy for data models that particularly focus on IoHT data architecture to improve the feasibility of AMFA. This viewpoint focuses on identifying key cybersecurity challenges in a theoretical framework for a data model that summarizes the main components of IoHT data. The data are to be used in modalities that are suited for health care users in modern IoHT environments and in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. To establish the data taxonomy, a review of recent IoHT papers was conducted to discuss the related work in IoHT data management and use in next-generation authentication systems. Reports, journal articles, conferences, and white papers were reviewed for IoHT authentication data technologies in relation to the problem statement of remote authentication and user management systems. Only publications written in English from the last decade were included (2012-2022) to identify key issues within the current health care practices and their management of IoHT devices. We discuss the components of the IoHT architecture from the perspective of data management and sensitivity to ensure privacy for all users. The data model addresses the security requirements of IoHT users, environments, and devices toward the automation of AMFA in health care. We found that in health care authentication, the significant threats occurring were related to data breaches owing to weak security options and poor user configuration of IoHT devices. The security requirements of IoHT data architecture and identified impactful methods of cybersecurity for health care devices, data, and their respective attacks are discussed. Data taxonomy provides better understanding, solutions, and improvements of user authentication in remote working environments for security features.