Rapid digitalization in health care has led to the adoption of digital technologies; however, limited trust in internet-based health decisions and the need for technical personnel hinder the use of smartphones and machine learning applications. To address this, automated machine learning (AutoML) is a promising tool that can empower health care professionals to enhance the effectiveness of mobile health apps. We used AutoML to analyze data from clinical studies involving patients with chronic hand and/or foot eczema or psoriasis vulgaris who used a smartphone monitoring app. The analysis focused on itching, pain, Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI) development, and app use. After extensive data set preparation, which consisted of combining 3 primary data sets by extracting common features and by computing new features, a new pseudonymized secondary data set with a total of 368 patients was created. Next, multiple machine learning classification models were built during AutoML processing, with the most accurate models ultimately selected for further data set analysis. Itching development for 6 months was accurately modeled using the light gradient boosted trees classifier model (log loss: 0.9302 for validation, 1.0193 for cross-validation, and 0.9167 for holdout). Pain development for 6 months was assessed using the random forest classifier model (log loss: 1.1799 for validation, 1.1561 for cross-validation, and 1.0976 for holdout). Then, the random forest classifier model (log loss: 1.3670 for validation, 1.4354 for cross-validation, and 1.3974 for holdout) was used again to estimate the DLQI development for 6 months. Finally, app use was analyzed using an elastic net blender model (area under the curve: 0.6567 for validation, 0.6207 for cross-validation, and 0.7232 for holdout). Influential feature correlations were identified, including BMI, age, disease activity, DLQI, and Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale-Anxiety scores at follow-up. App use increased with BMI >35, was less common in patients aged >47 years and those aged 23 to 31 years, and was more common in those with higher disease activity. A Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale-Anxiety score >8 had a slightly positive effect on app use. This study provides valuable insights into the relationship between data characteristics and targeted outcomes in patients with chronic eczema or psoriasis, highlighting the potential of smartphone and AutoML techniques in improving chronic disease management and patient care.