Virtual and augmented reality (VAR) represents a combination of current state-of-the-art computer and imaging technologies and has the potential to be a revolutionary technology in many surgical fields. An increasing number of investigators have developed and applied VAR in hip-related surgery with the aim of using this technology to reduce hip surgery–related complications, improve surgical success rates, and reduce surgical risks. These technologies are beginning to be widely used in hip-related preoperative operation simulation and training, intraoperative navigation tools in the operating room, and postoperative rehabilitation. With the aim of reviewing the current status of virtual reality (VR) and augmented reality (AR) in hip-related surgery and summarizing its benefits, we discussed and briefly described the applicability, advantages, limitations, and future perspectives of VR and AR techniques in hip-related surgery, such as preoperative operation simulation and training; explored the possible future applications of AR in the operating room; and discussed the bright prospects of VR and AR technologies in postoperative rehabilitation after hip surgery. We searched the PubMed and Web of Science databases using the following key search terms: (“virtual reality” OR “augmented reality”) AND (“pelvis” OR “hip”). The literature on basic and clinical research related to the aforementioned key search terms, that is, studies evaluating the key factors, challenges, or problems of using of VAR technology in hip-related surgery, was collected. A total of 40 studies and reports were included and classified into the following categories: total hip arthroplasty, hip resurfacing, femoral neck fracture, pelvic fracture, acetabular fracture, tumor, arthroscopy, and postoperative rehabilitation. Quality assessment could be performed in 30 studies. Among the clinical studies, there were 16 case series with an average score of 89 out of 100 points (89%) and 1 case report that scored 81 (SD 10.11) out of 100 points (81%) according to the Joanna Briggs Institute Critical Appraisal Checklist. Two cadaveric studies scored 85 of 100 points (85%) and 92 of 100 points (92%) according to the Quality Appraisal for Cadaveric Studies scale. VR and AR technologies hold great promise for hip-related surgeries, especially for preoperative operation simulation and training, feasibility applications in the operating room, and postoperative rehabilitation, and have the potential to assist orthopedic surgeons in operating more accurately and safely. More comparative studies are necessary, including studies focusing on clinical outcomes and cost-effectiveness.