Over 1 million people in the United States have died of COVID-19. In response to this public health crisis, the US Department of Health and Human Services launched theWe Can Do Thispublic education campaign in April 2021 to increase vaccine confidence. The campaign uses a mix of digital, television, print, radio, and out-of-home channels to reach target audiences. However, the impact of this campaign on vaccine uptake has not yet been assessed. We aimed to address this gap by assessing the association between theWe Can Do ThisCOVID-19 public education campaign’s digital impressions and the likelihood of first-dose COVID-19 vaccination among US adults. A nationally representative sample of 3642 adults recruited from a US probability panel was surveyed over 3 waves (wave 1: January to February 2021; wave 2: May to June 2021; and wave 3: September to November 2021) regarding COVID-19 vaccination, vaccine confidence, and sociodemographics. Survey data were merged with weekly paid digital campaign impressions delivered to each respondent’s media market (designated market area [DMA]) during that period. The unit of analysis was the survey respondent–broadcast week, with respondents nested by DMA. Data were analyzed using a multilevel logit model with varying intercepts by DMA and time-fixed effects. TheWe Can Do Thisdigital campaign was successful in encouraging first-dose COVID-19 vaccination. The findings were robust to multiple modeling specifications, with the independent effect of the change in the campaign’s digital dose remaining practically unchanged across all models. Increases in DMA-level paid digital campaign impressions in a given week from –30,000 to 30,000 increased the likelihood of first-dose COVID-19 vaccination by 125%. Results from this study provide initial evidence of theWe Can Do Thiscampaign’s digital impact on vaccine uptake. The size and length of the Department of Health and Human ServicesWe Can Do Thispublic education campaign make it uniquely situated to examine the impact of a digital campaign on COVID-19 vaccination, which may help inform future vaccine communication efforts and broader public education efforts. These findings suggest that campaign digital dose is positively associated with COVID-19 vaccination uptake among US adults; future research assessing campaign impact on reduced COVID-19–attributed morbidity and mortality and other benefits is recommended. This study indicates that digital channels have played an important role in the COVID-19 pandemic response. Digital outreach may be integral in addressing future pandemics and could even play a role in addressing nonpandemic public health crises.