Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has emerged as a worldwide public health issue. Identifying and targeting populations at a heightened risk of developing NAFLD over a 5-year period can help reduce and delay adverse hepatic prognostic events. This study aimed to investigate the 5-year incidence of NAFLD in the Chinese population. It also aimed to establish and validate a machine learning model for predicting the 5-year NAFLD risk. The study population was derived from a 5-year prospective cohort study. A total of 6196 individuals without NAFLD who underwent health checkups in 2010 at Zhenhai Lianhua Hospital in Ningbo, China, were enrolled in this study. Extreme gradient boosting (XGBoost)–recursive feature elimination, combined with the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO), was used to screen for characteristic predictors. A total of 6 machine learning models, namely logistic regression, decision tree, support vector machine, random forest, categorical boosting, and XGBoost, were utilized in the construction of a 5-year risk model for NAFLD. Hyperparameter optimization of the predictive model was performed in the training set, and a further evaluation of the model performance was carried out in the internal and external validation sets. The 5-year incidence of NAFLD was 18.64% (n=1155) in the study population. We screened 11 predictors for risk prediction model construction. After the hyperparameter optimization, CatBoost demonstrated the best prediction performance in the training set, with an area under the receiver operating characteristic (AUROC) curve of 0.810 (95% CI 0.768-0.852). Logistic regression showed the best prediction performance in the internal and external validation sets, with AUROC curves of 0.778 (95% CI 0.759-0.794) and 0.806 (95% CI 0.788-0.821), respectively. The development of web-based calculators has enhanced the clinical feasibility of the risk prediction model. Developing and validating machine learning models can aid in predicting which populations are at the highest risk of developing NAFLD over a 5-year period, thereby helping delay and reduce the occurrence of adverse liver prognostic events.