Traditional methods for investigating work hours rely on an employee’s physical presence at the worksite. However, accurately identifying break times at the worksite and distinguishing remote work outside the worksite poses challenges in work hour estimations. Machine learning has the potential to differentiate between human-smartphone interactions at work and off work. In this study, we aimed to develop a novel approach called “probability in work mode,” which leverages human-smartphone interaction patterns and corresponding GPS location data to estimate work hours. To capture human-smartphone interactions and GPS locations, we used the “Staff Hours” app, developed by our team, to passively and continuously record participants’ screen events, including timestamps of notifications, screen on or off occurrences, and app usage patterns. Extreme gradient boosted trees were used to transform these interaction patterns into a probability, while 1-dimensional convolutional neural networks generated successive probabilities based on previous sequence probabilities. The resulting probability in work mode allowed us to discern periods of office work, off-work, breaks at the worksite, and remote work. Our study included 121 participants, contributing to a total of 5503 person-days (person-days represent the cumulative number of days across all participants on which data were collected and analyzed). The developed machine learning model exhibited an average prediction performance, measured by the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve, of 0.915 (SD 0.064). Work hours estimated using the probability in work mode (higher than 0.5) were significantly longer (mean 11.2, SD 2.8 hours per day) than the GPS-defined counterparts (mean 10.2, SD 2.3 hours per day;P<.001). This discrepancy was attributed to the higher remote work time of 111.6 (SD 106.4) minutes compared to the break time of 54.7 (SD 74.5) minutes. Our novel approach, the probability in work mode, harnessed human-smartphone interaction patterns and machine learning models to enhance the precision and accuracy of work hour investigation. By integrating human-smartphone interactions and GPS data, our method provides valuable insights into work patterns, including remote work and breaks, offering potential applications in optimizing work productivity and well-being.