The potential to harness the plurality of available data in real time along with advanced data analytics for the accurate prediction of influenza-like illness (ILI) outbreaks has gained significant scientific interest. Different methodologies based on the use of machine learning techniques and traditional and alternative data sources, such as ILI surveillance reports, weather reports, search engine queries, and social media, have been explored with the ultimate goal of being used in the development of electronic surveillance systems that could complement existing monitoring resources. The scope of this study was to investigate for the first time the combined use of ILI surveillance data, weather data, and Twitter data along with deep learning techniques toward the development of prediction models able to nowcast and forecast weekly ILI cases. By assessing the predictive power of both traditional and alternative data sources on the use case of ILI, this study aimed to provide a novel approach for corroborating evidence and enhancing accuracy and reliability in the surveillance of infectious diseases. The model’s input space consisted of information related to weekly ILI surveillance, web-based social (eg, Twitter) behavior, and weather conditions. For the design and development of the model, relevant data corresponding to the period of 2010 to 2019 and focusing on the Greek population and weather were collected. Long short-term memory (LSTM) neural networks were leveraged to efficiently handle the sequential and nonlinear nature of the multitude of collected data. The 3 data categories were first used separately for training 3 LSTM-based primary models. Subsequently, different transfer learning (TL) approaches were explored with the aim of creating various feature spaces combining the features extracted from the corresponding primary models’ LSTM layers for the latter to feed a dense layer. The primary model that learned from weather data yielded better forecast accuracy (root mean square error [RMSE]=0.144; Pearson correlation coefficient [PCC]=0.801) than the model trained with ILI historical data (RMSE=0.159; PCC=0.794). The best performance was achieved by the TL-based model leveraging the combination of the 3 data categories (RMSE=0.128; PCC=0.822). The superiority of the TL-based model, which considers Twitter data, weather data, and ILI surveillance data, reflects the potential of alternative public sources to enhance accurate and reliable prediction of ILI spread. Despite its focus on the use case of Greece, the proposed approach can be generalized to other locations, populations, and social media platforms to support the surveillance of infectious diseases with the ultimate goal of reinforcing preparedness for future epidemics.