Tinnitus is a highly prevalent symptom affecting 10%-20% of the adult population. Most patients with tinnitus have chronic tinnitus, which can directly or indirectly disrupt their daily life and negatively affect the health-related quality of life. Therefore, patients with tinnitus are frequently in need of costly and time-consuming treatments. As an answer, telerehabilitation interventions are on a rise to promote self-management in patients with tinnitus and reduce their dependency on in-person care. This systematic review aimed to provide an overview of the research concerning the effectiveness of telerehabilitation interventions for self-management of tinnitus. This systematic review adheres to the PRISMA (Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses) guidelines. Studies were eligible for inclusion if study participants were adult patients with complaints of primary subjective tinnitus and the study intervention comprised any possible telerehabilitation form for the self-management of tinnitus complaints. A search for eligible studies was conducted on PubMed, ScienceDirect, Scopus, Web of Science, and Cochrane Library. The Cochrane Risk of Bias 2 tool was used to the assess risk of bias. In total, 29 articles were found eligible, and of these, 5 (17%) studied multiple telerehabilitation forms. Internet-based cognitive behavioral treatment with guidance by a psychologist or audiologist was examined in 17 studies (n=1767), internet-based cognitive behavioral treatment without guidance was examined in 4 studies (n=940), self-help manuals were examined in 1 study (n=72), technological self-help devices were examined in 2 studies (n=82), smartphone apps were examined in 8 studies (n=284), and other internet-based interventions were examined in 2 studies (n=130). These rehabilitation categories were proven to be effective in decreasing tinnitus severity and relieving tinnitus distress as measured by tinnitus questionnaires such as Tinnitus Functional Index, Tinnitus Handicap Inventory, or Tinnitus Reactions Questionnaire. However, dropout rates were often high (range 4%-71.4%). All studies reported between some concerns and high concerns of risk of bias, resulting in low to moderate certainty levels. Overall, there is low to moderate quality evidence that telerehabilitation interventions effectively reduce tinnitus severity and distress. These interventions form a possible tool to improve the self-management capacities of the patient and the accessibility of tinnitus care as a replacement or an addition to in-person care. Nevertheless, barriers such as lack of time, engagement, motivation, and openness of the patient causing high dropout should be considered. PROSPERO International Prospective Register of Systematic Reviews CRD42021285450; https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/prospero/display_record.php?RecordID=285450