The Healthier You National Health Service Digital Diabetes Prevention Programme (NHS-digital-DPP) is a 9-month digital behavior change intervention delivered by 4 independent providers that is implemented nationally across England. No studies have explored the design features included by service providers of digital diabetes prevention programs to promote engagement, and little is known about how participants of nationally implemented digital diabetes prevention programs such as this one make use of them. This study aimed to understand engagement with the NHS-digital-DPP. The specific objectives were to describe how engagement with the NHS-digital-DPP is promoted via design features and strategies and describe participants’ early engagement with the NHS-digital-DPP apps. Mixed methods were used. The qualitative study was a secondary analysis of documents detailing the NHS-digital-DPP intervention design and interviews with program developers (n=6). Data were deductively coded according to an established framework of engagement with digital health interventions. For the quantitative study, anonymous use data collected over 9 months for each provider representing participants’ first 30 days of use of the apps were obtained for participants enrolled in the NHS-digital-DPP. Use data fields were categorized into 4 intervention features (Track,Learn,Coach Interactions, andPeer Support). The amount of engagement with the intervention features was calculated for the entire cohort, and the differences between providers were explored statistically. Data were available for 12,857 participants who enrolled in the NHS-digital-DPP during the data collection phase. Overall, 94.37% (12,133/12,857) of those enrolled engaged with the apps in the first 30 days. The median (IQR) number of days of use was 11 (2-25).Trackfeatures were engaged with the most (number of tracking events: median 46, IQR 3-22), andPeer Supportfeatures were the least engaged with, a median value of 0 (IQR 0-0). Differences in engagement with features were observed across providers. Qualitative findings offer explanations for the variations, including suggesting the importance of health coaches, reminders, and regular content updates to facilitate early engagement. Almost all participants in the NHS-digital-DPP started using the apps. Differences across providers identified by the mixed methods analysis provide the opportunity to identify features that are important for engagement with digital health interventions and could inform the design of other digital behavior change interventions.