In China, a form of online health service called the internet hospital became a prominent means of patient care when face-to-face visits were not possible during the COVID-19 pandemic to minimize transmission of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Patients’ internet hospital experiences largely depend on online physician-patient interaction. Yet, little is known about how physicians can improve patient satisfaction by using specific communication strategies online. This study aimed to identify specific communication strategies to help physicians deliver better quality internet hospital services. We also outline recommendations for hospitals to operate internet hospital platforms more effectively. A longitudinal data set was collected from an internet hospital platform operated by a top hospital in China. By extracting communication patterns from approximately 20,000 records of online health care services and by controlling the features of service requests, we tested the impacts of response load, more detailed style, and emotional comfort on patient satisfaction. We further explored the effects of these communication patterns in different service contexts. Physicians with a low response load, a more detailed style, and expressions of emotional comfort received more positive patient feedback. Response load did not affect patient satisfaction with free online health service, whereas a more detailed style and emotional comfort enhanced satisfaction with free service. Response load significantly reduced patient satisfaction with paid online health service, while a more detailed style had no effect. Compared with free service, emotional comfort more strongly promoted patient satisfaction with paid service. The communication strategies identified can help physicians provide patients with a better internet hospital experience. These strategies require hospitals to schedule each physician’s online service period more appropriately. In addition, tailoring the strategies to service situations can facilitate more targeted and effective internet hospital service for patients.