Artificial intelligence models tailored to diagnose cognitive impairment have shown excellent results. However, it is unclear whether large linguistic models can rival specialized models by text alone. In this study, we explored the performance of ChatGPT for primary screening of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and standardized the design steps and components of the prompts. We gathered a total of 174 participants from the DementiaBank screening and classified 70% of them into the training set and 30% of them into the test set. Only text dialogues were kept. Sentences were cleaned using a macro code, followed by a manual check. The prompt consisted of 5 main parts, including character setting, scoring system setting, indicator setting, output setting, and explanatory information setting. Three dimensions of variables from published studies were included: vocabulary (ie, word frequency and word ratio, phrase frequency and phrase ratio, and lexical complexity), syntax and grammar (ie, syntactic complexity and grammatical components), and semantics (ie, semantic density and semantic coherence). We used R 4.3.0. for the analysis of variables and diagnostic indicators. Three additional indicators related to the severity of MCI were incorporated into the final prompt for the model. These indicators were effective in discriminating between MCI and cognitively normal participants: tip-of-the-tongue phenomenon (P<.001), difficulty with complex ideas (P<.001), and memory issues (P<.001). The final GPT-4 model achieved a sensitivity of 0.8636, a specificity of 0.9487, and an area under the curve of 0.9062 on the training set; on the test set, the sensitivity, specificity, and area under the curve reached 0.7727, 0.8333, and 0.8030, respectively. ChatGPT was effective in the primary screening of participants with possible MCI. Improved standardization of prompts by clinicians would also improve the performance of the model. It is important to note that ChatGPT is not a substitute for a clinician making a diagnosis.