Reference intervals (RIs) for patient test results are in standard use across many medical disciplines, allowing physicians to identify measurements indicating potentially pathological states with relative ease. The process of inferring cohort-specific RIs is, however, often ignored because of the high costs and cumbersome efforts associated with it. Sophisticated analysis tools are required to automatically infer relevant and locally specific RIs directly from routine laboratory data. These tools would effectively connect clinical laboratory databases to physicians and provide personalized target ranges for the respective cohort population. This study aims to describe the BioRef infrastructure, a multicentric governance and IT framework for the estimation and assessment of patient group–specific RIs from routine clinical laboratory data using an innovative decentralized data-sharing approach and a sophisticated, clinically oriented graphical user interface for data analysis. A common governance agreement and interoperability standards have been established, allowing the harmonization of multidimensional laboratory measurements from multiple clinical databases into a unified “big data” resource. International coding systems, such as the International Classification of Diseases, Tenth Revision (ICD-10); unique identifiers for medical devices from the Global Unique Device Identification Database; type identifiers from the Global Medical Device Nomenclature; and a universal transfer logic, such as the Resource Description Framework (RDF), are used to align the routine laboratory data of each data provider for use within the BioRef framework. With a decentralized data-sharing approach, the BioRef data can be evaluated by end users from each cohort site following a strict “no copy, no move” principle, that is, only data aggregates for the intercohort analysis of target ranges are exchanged. The TI4Health distributed and secure analytics system was used to implement the proposed federated and privacy-preserving approach and comply with the limitations applied to sensitive patient data. Under the BioRef interoperability consensus, clinical partners enable the computation of RIs via the TI4Health graphical user interface for query without exposing the underlying raw data. The interface was developed for use by physicians and clinical laboratory specialists and allows intuitive and interactive data stratification by patient factors (age, sex, and personal medical history) as well as laboratory analysis determinants (device, analyzer, and test kit identifier). This consolidated effort enables the creation of extremely detailed and patient group–specific queries, allowing the generation of individualized, covariate-adjusted RIs on the fly. With the BioRef-TI4Health infrastructure, a framework for clinical physicians and researchers to define precise RIs immediately in a convenient, privacy-preserving, and reproducible manner has been implemented, promoting a vital part of practicing precision medicine while streamlining compliance and avoiding transfers of raw patient data. This new approach can provide a crucial update on RIs and improve patient care for personalized medicine.