Many people worldwide experience obstructive sleep apnea, which is associated with medical and psychological problems. Continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) is an efficacious therapy for obstructive sleep apnea, but its effect is limited by nonadherence. Studies show that personalized education and feedback can increase CPAP adherence. Moreover, tailoring the style of information to the psychological profile of a patient has been shown to enhance the impact of interventions. This study aimed to assess the effect of an intervention providing digitally generated personalized education and feedback on CPAP adherence and the additional effect of tailoring the style of the education and feedback to an individual’s psychological profile. This study was a 90-day, multicenter, parallel, single-blinded, and randomized controlled trial with 3 conditions: personalized content in a tailored style (PT) in addition to usual care (UC), personalized content in a nontailored style (PN) in addition to UC, and UC. To test the effect of personalized education and feedback, the PN + PT group was compared with the UC group. To test the additional effect of tailoring the style to psychological profiles, the PN and PT groups were compared. Overall, 169 participants were recruited from 6 US sleep clinics. The primary outcome measures were adherence based on minutes of use per night and on nights of use per week. We found a significant positive effect of personalized education and feedback on both primary adherence outcome measures. The difference in the estimated average adherence based on minutes of use per night between the PT + PN and UC groups on day 90 was 81.3 minutes in favor of the PT + PN group (95% CI −134.00 to −29.10;P=.002). The difference in the average adherence based on nights of use per week between the PT + PN and UC groups at week 12 was 0.9 nights per week in favor of the PT + PN group (difference in odds ratio 0.39, 95% CI 0.21-0.72;P=.003). We did not find an additional effect of tailoring the style of the intervention to psychological profiles on the primary outcomes. The difference in nightly use between the PT and PN groups on day 90 (95% CI −28.20 to 96.50;P=.28) and the difference in nights of use per week between the PT and PN groups at week 12 (difference in odds ratio 0.85, 95% CI 0.51-1.43;P=.054) were both nonsignificant. The results show that personalized education and feedback can increase CPAP adherence substantially. Tailoring the style of the intervention to the psychological profiles of patients did not further increase adherence. Future research should investigate how the impact of interventions can be enhanced by catering to differences in psychological profiles. ClinicalTrials.gov NCT02195531; https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02195531