Digital transformation is currently one of the most influential developments. It is fundamentally changing consumers’ expectations and behaviors, challenging traditional firms, and disrupting numerous markets. Recent discussions in the health care sector tend to assess the influence of technological implications but neglect other factors needed for a holistic view on the digital transformation. This calls for a reevaluation of the current state of digital transformation in health care. Consequently, there is a need for a holistic view on the complex interdependencies of digital transformation in the health care sector. This study aimed to examine the effects of digital transformation on the health care sector. This is accomplished by providing a conceptual model of the health care sector under digital transformation. First, the most essential stakeholders in the health care sector were identified by a scoping review and grounded theory approach. Second, the effects on these stakeholders were assessed. PubMed, Web of Science, and Dimensions were searched for relevant studies. On the basis of an integrative review and grounded theory methodology, the relevant academic literature was systematized and quantitatively and qualitatively analyzed to evaluate the impact on the value creation of, and the relationships among, the stakeholders. Third, the findings were synthesized into a conceptual model of the health care sector under digital transformation. A total of 2505 records were identified from the database search; of these, 140 (5.59%) were included and analyzed. The results revealed that providers of medical treatments, patients, governing institutions, and payers are the most essential stakeholders in the health care sector. As for the individual stakeholders, patients are experiencing a technology-enabled growth of influence in the sector. Providers are becoming increasingly dependent on intermediaries for essential parts of the value creation and patient interaction. Payers are expected to try to increase their influence on intermediaries to exploit the enormous amounts of data while seeing their business models be challenged by emerging technologies. Governing institutions regulating the health care sector are increasingly facing challenges from new entrants in the sector. Intermediaries increasingly interconnect all these stakeholders, which in turn drives new ways of value creation. These collaborative efforts have led to the establishment of a virtually integrated health care ecosystem. The conceptual model provides a novel and evidence-based perspective on the interrelations among actors in the health care sector, indicating that individual stakeholders need to recognize their role in the system. The model can be the basis of further evaluations of strategic actions of actors and their effects on other actors or the health care ecosystem itself.