Loyalty card data automatically collected by retailers provide an excellent source for evaluating health-related purchase behavior of customers. The data comprise information on every grocery purchase, including expenditures on product groups and the time of purchase for each customer. Such data where customers have an expenditure value for every product group for each time can be formulated as 3D tensorial data. This study aimed to use the modern tensorial principal component analysis (PCA) method to uncover the characteristics of health-related purchase patterns from loyalty card data. Another aim was to identify card holders with distinct purchase patterns. We also considered the interpretation, advantages, and challenges of tensorial PCA compared with standard PCA. Loyalty card program members from the largest retailer in Finland were invited to participate in this study. Our LoCard data consist of the purchases of 7251 card holders who consented to the use of their data from the year 2016. The purchases were reclassified into 55 product groups and aggregated across 52 weeks. The data were then analyzed using tensorial PCA, allowing us to effectively reduce the time and product group-wise dimensions simultaneously. The augmentation method was used for selecting the suitable number of principal components for the analysis. Using tensorial PCA, we were able to systematically search for typical food purchasing patterns across time and product groups as well as detect different purchasing behaviors across groups of card holders. For example, we identified customers who purchased large amounts of meat products and separated them further into groups based on time profiles, that is, customers whose purchases of meat remained stable, increased, or decreased throughout the year or varied between seasons of the year. Using tensorial PCA, we can effectively examine customers’ purchasing behavior in more detail than with traditional methods because it can handle time and product group dimensions simultaneously. When interpreting the results, both time and product dimensions must be considered. In further analyses, these time and product groups can be directly associated with additional consumer characteristics such as socioeconomic and demographic predictors of dietary patterns. In addition, they can be linked to external factors that impact grocery purchases such as inflation and unexpected pandemics. This enables us to identify what types of people have specific purchasing patterns, which can help in the development of ways in which consumers can be steered toward making healthier food choices.